MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 14, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public workshop on J anuary 14, 2016 beginning 3:00 p.111. at
Maggie’s Once More in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was called to
order at 3:00 p.111. by the Board President Keith Neville

MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:
Barbara Lancaster
Donna Glazier
Mark Nixon
Sheryl Samson

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent
OTHERS PRESENT: Spring Blazewick
Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: December 17, 2015 Workshop

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve the minutes of December 17, 2015. Sheryl Samson seconded
the motion. Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Barbara Lancaster—Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes,
Sheryl Samson—Yes. Motion passed

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Discussion on deﬁning performance standards that will include goals and objectives which shall
include encouragement of student achievement as well as the responsibilities of the
Superintendent as set forth in the job description, and will be incorporated into the
Superintendent’s performance evaluation as outlined in Board Policy.

The Board discussed the previous. evaluation tool that was used in the past. President Nevillestated that
goals and obj ectives should have a measurable outcome so they can be used to evaluate. He said that this
isn’t about Walt. It’s about this district and the things that we see that need to get ﬁxed.

Mr. Nixon said that he understood what Mr. Neville was talking about but unfortunately the evaluation
has to be about Walt and the district and that will be hard to divide out. He went on to say that he does
have some issues with holding Mr. Hackford responsible for some of the things that are already going on
in this district. We have to ﬁx things to a huge extent before we can evaluate what the progress of this
district is but that is going to be an issue we are going to have to deal with. That is one of the reasons I
put the curriculum in the goals because it's a mixed bag right now and I don’t know how we are going to
hold the teachers responsible. We have no direction from the board on how we are going to do the
curriculum. The conversation went well at the last workshop with Walt’s input on curriculum mapping
and getting it done. I really liked the timelines he was talking about. Going along with what Keith is

l

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 14, 2016
saying about needing to ﬁx things in this district. To me, that is one of the single most important things
we have to do right off the bat.

Sheri Samson agreed with Mr. Nixon that the mapping is important but how do we rate him on morale
and things that have deteriorated. It’s going to take a momentum to get things going, I think it‘s so much
better now but how do you rate a Superintendent on morale? You are going to have somebody who
doesn’t like what they are doing. It’s not individual enough to him and his responsibilities so that is a
tuft one to hold him accountable for. Keith said that it is measurable so it can be done. The board
discussed the fact that teachers have to teach to the test, Common Core and NEPF stating that the
teachers are frustrated and its effecting morale. Mr. Nixon stated that Common Core is content standards
and it would help the teachers by developing curriculum. They discussed the Superintendent putting
together a committee to work on the curriculum. Mr. Hackford said he could do that and it would help
the teachers.

Mrs. Samson asked the Superintendent what are the top three goals. Mr. I-Iackford explained that
aligning curriculum is important but there is much more to it. We have to provide the teachets with
resources and guidelines. We need to unite, behind the teaches and provide them with the resources,
guidelines and its uniform across the district. The teachers need to share the guidelines with the parents
at conferences. Providing them with visual of where there child is and where they need to be.

Donna Glazier asked Mr. Hackford if he thought we would see any growth this year and is there anything
going on that would help with that. He said he needs to look at the winter MAP Scores. We are
providing afterschool tutoring, but there aren’t as many students involved this year, so he is a little
worried. He told the board that the MAP window closes around Febmary so he could tell them more
then.

Donna asked what the board is going to do about the Superintendent’s evaluation. She said we need to
get going on it. Mark said he agreed, but is having a hard time with the evaluation when the board has
not given him clear guidelines. He said he thought they could but it’s going to be little different criteria
If we put the cum'culum together we could use the timelines 0n the evaluation.

Mark said attendance is another big problem in our district. He said that goes back to the Superintendent.
We have great policies in place, why aren’t they being enforced? Keith asked if we are contacting
parents. Walt said all schools are at 90-95 percent but our goal should be 95. He said it tends to be a
bigger problem in the high school. Kids tend to he meant. By law a student can miss no more than 10
percent of the school year which is 9 days per semester. All the schools send letters home and we meet
with parents to let them know theii~ child is in danger. The board also discussed the possibiiity of a 4 day
school week improving attendance.

Mr. Neville also spoke about Athletics. He said we need to ﬁnd a way to get the teachers and staff to
support the program and participate in games on Friday and Saturdays.

The board also discussed staff attendance. Walt said attendance is huge. They discussed the amount
budgeted for Substitute Teachers. Sheri brought up the fact that the 4 day school week may help staff
attendance as well. She said it may be an enhancement and it could help with the staff attendance also.
Walt said what would continue to help morale is support. He said the board supports him, he supports
the principals and the principals support the teachers.

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 14, 2016
Keith stated one of his goals is consistency of the principals throughout the district. He said if our
principals are consistent and then the teachers will be consistent.

Mark Nixon stated that he has been snuggling because he does not have a way to put together a
document that is going to hold Walt responsible for this school district. He said that it needs to be ﬂuid
as they go through the process. We don’t need a black and white pn'nt evaluation document for Walt.
We know where we want to go with the goals, the curriculum, and morale. Some of the things Keith
suggested can be worked on in PLCs. Everything on here is workable as long as we are on the same
page with Walt and to do this communication is the key. ifthere is a failure let’s bring it to him
immediately and work on it. Barbara Lancaster agreed with Mr. Nixon stating there is no way to put all
of these things in line items. She said a line item evaluation just does not wotk in this situation. Mark
stated that essentially what we are doing is evaluating every workshOp. Barbara said we are evaluating
ourselves as well. If we can continue to have worksh0ps we axe evaluating all of us. Mark stated that
there are benchmarks like curriculum alignment, the attendance issues with following the law, make sure
the PLCs are doing what they are supposed to be doing and teachers are attending. Where we need to
come together is how we are going to handle this with Wait and his contract? His contract says a
memorandum of standards. We can deﬁne in the standards that we are meeting in these workshops to
problem solve with the Superintendent. Donna Glazier stated, she would like to see a written evaluation
for Walt. lfhe wants to move on, he needs an evaluation. Keith suggested doing a verbal evaluation in
an open meeting recorded in the minutes. Walt said he would be ﬁne with that. Barbara said she thought
that by May I31 the board should have an opinion on how the Superintendent is doing and to have it in a
minute format is much better than a line item evaluation

The board discussed scheduling one workshop a month for the next few months to discuss the
Superintendents progress on the goals. The next meeting will be on F ebruary 1 ltil at 3pm.

GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

It is the School Board‘s intention to listen and be responsive to the general public’s mums. Comments from the public resenting topics not on the agenda are
invited at this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during-lhe Omen] Public comment period or by completing a Request to Address the MCSD
Board form prior to the General Public Cement period. The Board will answct questions or dismss to the best oftheir ability items that are inlrodueod. Heuvever,
by law. the Board cannot lake any action, reach a consensus or hear personal attacks at this time. Those who submit the form will nonnally be called on that.
Speaking time will be limited to a madman: of 3 minutes. The Pmident may allow additional time In a given speaker as time allows and in hishcr sate diaereﬁon.

ADJOURNMENT: 5:15 M. '

     

Respectfully submitted;

hhna 'Glaﬁetrcilelkt' '

