MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 21, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on January 21, 2016 beginning 5:30 p.m. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5:30 p.m. by the Board President, Keith Neville.

MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT: Barbara Lancaster
Mark Nixon Donna Glazier

Sheryl Samson

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; Stephanie Keuhey, Principal HES; Mike
Domagala, Principal HJH/MCHS

OTHERS PRESENT: Patricia Stoddard, Hope Blinco, Tom Gallegos, Arlo P. Funk, Will Keady,
Spring Blazewick, J i111 Kroﬁ

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
A Moment of Silence was observed and then the Pledge of Allegiance was recited

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: December 17, 2015
2. Payroll Vouchers: 1067, 1068, 1074, 1075
3. Payroll Cheeks: 81634-81692
4. Warrants: 15205 45323

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve consent items [-4. Mark Nixon seconded the motion. Vote: Keith
Neville — Yes, Mark Nixon -— Yes, Sheryl Samson - Yes. Motion passed

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Discussion for wible action on the sun an] election of Board Ofﬁcers.

Mark Nixon made the motion to keep the current ofﬁcers as is (Keith. Neville, President; Barbara Lancaster, Vice
President; Donna Glazier, Clerk) Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Mark Nixon -
Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes. Motion passed

2. Discussion for Eessihle action on the Insurance Committee’s recommendation to renew with Anthem
Blue Cross Blue Shield for the District’s Health, Vision, dental and Life Insurance.

Mark Nixon made the motion to approve the renewal with Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield for the District's
Health, Vision, dental and Life [nsurahee as recommended by the lusurance Committee. Sheryl Samson seconded
the motion. Vote: Keith Neville - Yes, Mark Nixon — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yea. Motion passed

3. Discussion for wihle action to appoint MCSD Board Members to the following: Park and Recreation
Conmittee, Consolidated Agencies of Human Services, Legislative Committee, Nevada Public Agency
Insurance Pool, Nevada Association of School Boards Directors, Mineral County Debt Management
Committee, Insurance Committee, Budget Committee, Attendance Committee, Sex Education
Committee, Certiﬁed Negotiations Team, and Classiﬁed Negotiations Team.

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 21, 2016

Tabled to next meeting February 18, 2016
4. Discussion for possible action on the 2016 Board Meeting Calendar.
Tabled to next meeting February 18, 2016

5. Discussion for mssible action to allow the Superintendent, Walt Haekford to apply for any and all
Federal, State, and competitive grants that beneﬁt Mineral County School District.

Mark Nixon made the motion to allow the Superintendent Walt Hackford to apply for any and all F edeml, State
and competitive grants that beneﬁt Mineral County School District. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote:
Keith Neville — Yes, Mark Nixon — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes. Motion passed

6. Discussion for pgssibie action the quarterly Class Size Reduction relmrt.

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the quarterly Class Size Reduction report. Keith Neville seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Mark Nixon - Yes, Sheryl Samson —— Yes. Motion passed

7. Discussion for gossible action on the second reading of Policy KABA Parent Involvement Plan.

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve Policy KABA Parent Involvement Plan as submitted. Mark Nixon
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Ya, Mark Nixon — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes. Motion passed

8. Discussion for Qossible action on the second reading of Policy KABB Policies and Procedures for Indian
Children, as per Public Law 81-874.

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve Policy KABB Policies and Procedures for Indian Children, as per
Public Law 81-874 as submitted. Mark Nixon seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Mark Nixon —

Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes. Motion passed

9. Discussion for possible action on the ﬁrst reading of the revision of Policy GBB6 Mineral County School
District Drug and Alcohol Policy.

F irst reading for discussion only. Bring back on the February 18, 2016 agenda for second reading.

10. Discussion on new staff.

Superintendent Hackford informed the Board of the newly hired employees. Discussion only
COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

Correspondence & Announcements
Board Member Reports
Superintendent’s Report
Administrator Reports

Technology Report

Person or Group Recognition

99'5“???

MJNERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 21, 2016
GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

II is the School Board's intention to listen and be respenSive to lhe general publie’s concen'ts. Comments ﬂew the public regarding topiw net on the agenda an:
invited at this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comma“ period at by completing a Request to Address the MCSD
Board form prior tn the General Public Cnmment period. The Board will answer questions or discuss to the best of their ability items that an: mtrodueed. However.
by law. the Board cannot take any action, reach a consensus er hes: personal attacks at this time. Those who submit the form will normally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum of) minutes. The President may allow additional time In a given speaker as time allows and in hisfher sole discretion.

ADJOURNMENT: 6:19 p.m.

Respectfully submitted;

 

