MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 26, 2017

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on J anuary 26, 2017 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5:30 pm. by the Board President, Keith Neville.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:
Sheryl Samson
Tyler Viani
Schyler Hagen

ADMINISTRATORS: Walter Hackford, Superintendent; Michael Demagala, Principal SES;
Stephanie Keuhey, Principal HES; Jeff Wales, Principal HJI—L’MCHS.

OTHERS PRESENT: John Kinkella, Arlo Funk, Pam Wells, Tom Gallegos, Shelly Lovitt, Sandra
Weissman, Hope Bh‘nco, Meshanna Huntley, Melissa Cardenas, Shelley
Tweedy, Ann Kee, Jessica Rowe. William Keady, Larry Arevalo, Daria
Benton, Pam Wells.

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

ACTION ITEMS: (FOR POSSIBLE ACTION)

Tyler Viani made the motion to move into closed session pursuant to NRS 241.030, to discuss and consider
interview questions for new Board Member interviews. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Keith
Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed 4-0-0

CLOSED SESSION:

1. Pursuant to NRS 241.030 to discuss and develop the interview questions for the new Board Member
interviews. (Discussion Only)

The Board discussed the list previously approved with additions suggested by Board Member Viani.

Tyler Viani motioned to move back into open session. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Keith
Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed 4-0-0

ACTION ITEMS CONTINUED: (FOR POSSIBLE ACTION)
2. Approval of the ﬁnal interview questions discussed in closed session. (Discussion/F or Possible Action)

Tyler Viani made the motion to approve the ﬁnal interview questions. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion.
Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Tyler Viani -— Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed
4-0-0

3. Interview candidates to ﬁll the vacant outside seat on the Board of Trustees. (Discussion Only)

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 26, 2017

Sheryl Samson interview the candidate Daria Benton. (Discussion Only)

4. Discussion on appointing a new member of the Board of Trustees to ﬁll the vacant unexpired outside seat
beginning January 1, 2017. (DiscussionIFor Possible Action)

After some discussion Mrs. Benton withdrew her candidacy by walking out of the meeting. The Board will
continue their search for a new member to ﬁll the vacant outside seat for an unexpired term beginnin g January
2017. (Discussion Only)

5. Jump Start Program Overview presented by John Kinkella, WNC. (Informationmiscussion)

John Kinkella gave a presentation on the J ump Start Program. He Spoke to the Board about grant funding
available for the program. The Board stated they would like to pursue the program and grants. This item will
be brought back on the next agenda for action. (Information/Discussion Only)

6. Discuss Board Goals for the District. (Discussion/F or Possible Action)

President Neville asked the Board to do some research on other district’s goals and bring back suggestions to a
workshop to be scheduled at a later date. (Discussion Only)

7. Second reading and approval of the revised Board Policy KABB Policies and Procedures for Indian Children,
as per Public Law 81-874, and as required by the Impact Aid F ederal Program. (Discussiom’For Possible
Action) ,

Sheryl Samson made the motion to accept the second reading and approve the revised Board Policy revised
Board Policy KABB Policies and Procedures for Indian Children, as per Public Law 81-874, and as required
by the Impact Aid Federal Program. Tyler Viani seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl
Samson — Yes, Tyier Viani - Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed 4-0—0

8. Temporary position for General Ofﬁce Clerical in the District Ofﬁce, 15 hours per week, for 15 weeks.
(Discussion/F or Possible Action)

Superintendent Hackford explained due to unforeseen absences in the District Ofﬁce the req uest was made to
help get everyone caught up. After some discussion Tyler Viani made the motion to table this item to get a

better grasp on exactly what the needs (of the District Ofﬁce) are. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote:
Keith Neville — No, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed 3-1-0

9. Approval of the job description for a Temporary Ofﬁce Worker. (Discussion/F or Possible Action)
This item was pulled to be brought back with action item #8.

10. Approval of the Revised 2016-2017 Administrative Negotiated Agreement and Salary Scale. (DiscussionIF or
Possible Action)

Mr. Hackford briefed the Board on the Administrative negotiations and Salary Scale. It was pointed out by
District Attorney Rowe that the draft should have been posed on the website for at least 3 days before it could
be approved. This item was tabled to be brought back on the next agenda. (Discussion Only)

11. Discussion on the List of current Grants. (InformationfDiscussion)

Grant Manager Shelly Lovitt was present to give the Board an overview of the current grants and answer
questions. (Discussion only)

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 26, 2017

12. Discussion on entering into a 3-5 year Lease—to-Own Agreement with Mineral County for the 6th Street School
Building. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

Mr. Haekford explained the option Ufa Lease-to-Own contract with Mineral County. He went on telling them
that the County was reluctant to allow the District to deed the building to them due to repair issues and
unknown funding sources. Mr. Rowe stated he could have a lease drawn up in the next couple of weeks.

. Sheryl Samson made the motion to pursue and enter into a Lease-to-Own Agreement with Minera! County at
the 5 year level for the 6th Street School. and allow the Board President to sign the Lease Contract once it’s
presented. Tyler Viani seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes. Tyler Viani
— Yes, Schyier Hagen _ Yes. Motion pasSed 4-0-0

13. Discussion on the Superintendents Expectationstvaiuation. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

President Neville placed this item on the agenda to talk about the timeline of the Superintendents Annual
Evaluation and the tool that will be used. (Discussion Only)

14. Discussion on scheduling a workshop before the regular meeting scheduled for February 16, 2017.
(Discussion/for Possible Action)

Superintendent Hackford spoke with the Board regarding scheduling a workshop with Wayne Carlson from
POOLIPACT. MI. Carlson can‘t make the original date discussed which was February 16thso the workshop
will be rescheduled to March 2"d before the regular meeting. (Discussion Only)

w
1. Minutes: December 21, 2016
2. Minutes: January 5, 2017
3. Payroll Vouchers: 1074, 1075
4. Payroll Checks: . 82493 — 82516
5. A/P Checks: 16944 - 17007

The minutes of December 21St were pulled because they have already approved at the previous
meeting. Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve consent items 2-5. Tyler Viani seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes.
Motion passed 4-0-0

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1"

Correspondence & Announcements - None
2. Board Member Reports — Mr. Neville gave the Board information on the NIAA meeting he attended.

Sheryl Samson commented on the NASB Orientation they attended.
3. Superintendent’s Report — Mr. Hackford was unable to get his report submitted but stated he will submit

a report at the next meeting
4. Technology Report — Will Keady was presuent to answer questions, Mr. Neville asked about the purposed

cellular tower in Sehurz. Will stated that he was not a part of that project. Mr. Haekford informed the

board the company has backed out.
5. Person or Group Recognition — Will Keady thanked Tom Gallegos, Maintenance Supervisor and his crew

for their help on the new Computer Lab at the High School. Mr. Haekford introduced the new Music
Teacher, Mr. Ben Guoch.

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 26, 2017
GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

It is Ihe School Board's intention to listen and be responsive to the general publie‘s concerns. Comments from the public regarding tomes not on the agenda are
invited at Ihis time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comment period or by completing a Request to Addrcsx the MCSD
Board form prior to the General Public Comment period. The Board will answer questions or discuss to the best of their ability items that are introduced. However.
by law. the Board cannot take any action. reach a consensus or hear personal attacks :11 this time. ”mose who submit the form will nonnally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum of 3 minutes. The President may atlow additional time to a given speaker as time allows and in hisz‘her sole discretion.

ADJOURNMENT: 7:29

Respectfully submitted; f, / 7, :‘i
Sheryl S ; son, Board Clerk

