MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 5, 2017

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on January 5, 2016 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5 :30 pm. by the Board President, Keith Neville.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:
Sheryl Samson
Tyler Viani
Schyler Hagen

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; Michael Doinagala, SES Principal
OTHERS PRESENT: Sarah Dillard, Garth Price, Ann Kee, Tricia Schumann

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately. Then the Pledge of
Allegiance was recited

ACTION ITEMS:
1. Interview candidates to ﬁll the vacant outside seat on the Board of Trustees. (Discussion Only)

Due to weather the applicant could not make the meeting. This item was tabled to be added to the next
agenda, January 26, 2017

2. Discussion on appointing a new member of the Board of Trustees to ﬁll the vacant unexpired outside seat
beginning January 1, 2017. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

This item was tabled t0 the next meeting, January 26, 2017

3. Nomination and Election of Ofﬁcers: (Discussiom‘For Possible Action)
21. Board President — Keith Neville
Tyler Viani motion to nominated Keith Neville as Board President and Mr. Neville accepted the nomination.
Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson— Yes, Tyler Viani - Yes,
Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed 4-0-0

b. Vice President

Schyler Hagen made the motion to nominate Tyler Viani as Vice President and Mr. Viani accepted the
nomination. Seconded by Sheryl Samson. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson- Yes, Tyler Viani —
Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed 4-0-0

0. Clerk

Schyler Hagen made the motion to nominate Sheryl Samson as Board Clerk and Mrs. Samson accepted the
nomination. Seconded by Tyler Viani. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson- Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes,

Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed 4-0-0

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES

Thursday, January 5. 2017
4. Appoint Board Members to the following Committees: (Discussion/F or Possible Action)
Park and Recreation Committee H Tyler Viani
Consolidated Agencies of Human Services (C.A.H.S.) — Schyler Hagen
Legislative Committee — Sheryl Samson
Nevada Public Agency Insurance P001 — Tyler Viani
Nevada Association of School Boards (NASB) Board of Directors (2) — Sheryl Samson , and Keith
Neville as Alternate
Mineral County Debt Management Committee — Keith Neville
Insurance Committee — Tyler Viani
Budget Committee (2) - Keith Neville, and Schyler Hagen
Attendance Committee — Sheryl Samson
Sexual Education Committee — Sheryl Samson
Career and Technical Education (CTE) Committee — Sheryl Samson
Certiﬁed Negotiations Team (2) — Tyler Viani, and Schyler Hagen
. Classiﬁed Negotiations Team (2) — Tyler Viani, and Schyler Hagen
Administrative Negotiations Team (2) — Tyler Viani, and Schyler Hagen
Note: Keith Neville will stand in on negotiations as an alternate if one of the appointed members
cannot attend a meeting.

99-99-19

F B r‘w‘r-r'p‘qq rs

Sheryl Samson made the motion to appoint the Board Members to the various committees as discussed and
listed above. Tyler Viani seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson- Yes, Tyler Viani

— Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed 4—0—0
5. Discussion on setting the 2017 Board Meeting Calendar. (Discussioanor Possible Action)

The Board discussed the date and time of the 2017 Board of Trustees meetings. Sheryl Samson made the
motion to accept the calendar presented with the meetings scheduled on the ﬁrst and Third Thursday of each
month with 6 meetings to be held in Schurz, and to keep the meeting time of 5 :30 pm. Tyler Viani seCOnded
the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson- Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Sehyler Hagen — Yes.
Motion passed 4-0-0

6. Annual review of Board Policy KABA Parent and Family Involvement as a required by Title I to ensure the
LEA’s Policy meets federal requirements. (Discussioan or Possible Action)

This item was pulled from the agenda. The Superintendent will it bring back after the Committee has
met to review the policy.

7. First reading of revised Board Policy KABB Policies and Procedures for Indian Children, as per Public Law
81-874, and as required by the Impact Aid Federal Program. (Discussion Only)

The Board reviewed the policy with changes requested at a previous meeting. Sheryl Samson pointed out
language regarding the Board meeting schedule that needs to be corrected to reflect the current meeting
calendar. Discussion only.

8. Discussion on changing the date of the second meeting in January. (Discussion for Possible Action)

Due to scheduling conﬂicts Mr. Neville requested to change the meeting date for the second meeting in
January. Tyler Viani made the'motion to niove the second meeting to Thursday, January 26 at 5:30 pm.
Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Keith N eville — Yes, Sheryl Samson- Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes,
Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed 4-0-0

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, January 5, 2017

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: December 1, 2016
2. Minutes: December 21, 2016

Tyler Viani made the motion to approve consent items 1 and 2 as presented. Sheryl Samson seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith N eville — Yes, Sheryl Samson- Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion
passed 4-0-0 '

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1. Correspondence & Announcements - None

2. Board Member Reports ~ Sheryl Samson informed the Board that she working on an article on the SPED
trip to Mammoth Lakes. Mr. Haekford let the Board know that Mr. Wales would be returning and the
new Music Teacher Mr. Gooch would be starting on Monday.

GENERAL PUBLIC CONTNIENT:

It is the School Board‘s intention to listen and be responsive to the general public‘s conecms. Comments From the public regarding topics nnt on the agenda are
invited at this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public cammenl periad or by completing a Request to Address lhe MCSD
Board form prior [0 the General Public Comment period. The Board will answer questions Dr discmis to the best of their ability items that are Introduced. However,

by haw. the Board cannot take any action. reach a consensus or lzcnr petsnna} attaoks at this time. Those who submit the form will non'nally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be iimited to a minimum 01"3 minutes. The President may alluw nddilinnal lime to a given speaker :15 time allows and in hisfher sale disutction.

Tricia invited the Board and all staffto attend a training scheduled for January 27, on NEPF at the Public Library.
Sarah Dillard reqUested more information on the activities of the School District and that she would like to be on the
Budget Committee and inquired about dates and times of the meetings. '

ADJOURNMENT: 6:24 pm.

1

Respectfully submitted; 17] i a
. g;/’ h,
l/l/y/If/l/l/ﬁ'lf'ﬁA za/zfl/l/ﬂ/‘f/LI/l . 1/

Sheryl Saﬁison, Clerk

