MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, October 6, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on October 6, 2016 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5:30 pm. by the Board President, Keith Neville.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:
Donna Glazier
Mark Nixon
Sheryl Samson
Crystal Brown

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; Mike Domagala, Principal SES
OTHERS PRESENT: Tyler Viani, Tom Gallegos, Garth Price, Arlo Funk

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: ’ September 15, 2016
2. Payroll Vouchers: 1024, 1025, 1026, 1029
3. Payroll Checks: 82260-82293
4. A/P Warrants: 16487-16653

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve consent items 1-4. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion.
Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. 4-0-0 Motion
passed. ‘

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Discussion on ﬁlling the vacant outside seat on the Board of Trustees which may include appointing and
swearing in the qualiﬁed applicant as a Board Member. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

The Board conducted interviews last meeting on September 15. They could not reach unanimous decision to

appoint, they decided to re-interview the applicants with the full Board at this meeting. John Lockwood withdrew
as a candidatefor the vacant seat before the meeting was posted leaving only Crystal Brown as the only candidate.

Donna Glazier made the motion to appoint Crystal Brown to ﬁll the Vacant Seat. Sheryl Samson Seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith NevilleuYes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. 4-0-0
Motion passed.

Mrs. Brown was sworn in by Board Clerk Donna Glazier and took her seat on the Board immediately
following.

2. NRS. 391.556 Reporting Requirement from Mineral County School District regarding the Southern Nevada
Regional Professional Development Program. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, October 6, 2016

Sheryl Samson made the motion to accept the report for submission in compliance with NRS 391A.205. Donna
Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl
Samson-Yes. 5-0-0 Motion passed.

3. Discussion on the renovation of the “Green Building” which would include going out to bids for a new roof
and windows. (Discussion/F or Possible Action)

After some discussion regarding the condition of the building. Donna Glazier made the motion table this item and

bring it back to the Board for discussion in December 2016. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Keith
Neville-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes, Crystal Brown- Yes. 5—0-0
Motion passed.

4. F irst reading of new Policy: One to One Technology Equipment Agreement. (InformationfDiscussion Only)

Discussion Only

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1. Correspondence & Announcements - None
2. Board Member Reports - None

3. Administrator Report's — The report was included in the backup, Mr. Domagala was present to answer
question regarding his report.
4. Person or Group Recognition - None

GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

It is the School Board’s intention to listen and be responsive to me general public's concerns. Comments from the public regarding topics not on the agenda are
invited at this time You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comment period or by completing a Request to Address the MCSD

Board form prior to the General Public Comment period. The Bean] will answer questions or discuss 10 the best oflhcir ability items that are introduced. However,

by law, the Board cannot lake any action, reach a consensus or hear personal attacks at this time. Those who submit the form will normally be called on ﬁrst.

Speaking time will be limited to a maximum of 3 minutes. The President may allow additional time to a given speaker as time allows and in his/her sole discretion.

ADJOURNMENT: 6:18 pm.

  

Respectfully submitted;

