MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, November 3, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on November 3, 2016 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the A110 K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5:30 pm. by the Board President, Keith Neville.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:
Donna Glazier
Mark Nixon
Sheryl Samson

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; J eff Wales, Principal HJH/MCHS

OTHERS PRESENT: Michael Boney, Tom Gallegos, Pam Wells, Christy Grant, Larry Grant, Steve
Leitz, Will Keady, Monica Keady, J ennifer Smith, Melissa Cardenas, Cherrie
George, Garth Price, Hope Blinco, Mike Harris, Arlo Funk, Jacqueline Carr,
Mary Koscinski, Tyler Viani

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately-
A Moment of Silence was observed and then the Pledge of Allegiame was recited

CONSENT ITEMS:

1. Minutes: October 6, 2016
2. Payroll Vouchers: 1031, 1032, 1034
3. Payroll Checks: 82294-82319

4. A/P Warrants: 16655-16694

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve consent items l-4, Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Motion
passed. Vote: Keith NevillebYes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed.

ACTION ITEMS:
1. Review Class Size Reduction Report and approve submission. (Discussioanor Possible Action)

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve the Class Size Reduction report for submission. Sheryl Samson
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes.

Motion passed.

2. Interactive Learning with ZSpace 3D Virtual Reality presentation by Steve Leitz, Backbone Communications.
(DiSCUSSionJ'F or Possible Action)

Steve Leitz from Backbone Communications presented the ZSpace 3D Virtual Reality presentation. The software
was set up in another room for the Board and public to demonstrate. Discussion Only.

3. Discussion on allowing J ennifer Smith to bring her therapy dog to class to work with a student.
(Discussion/For Possible Action)

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES

Thursday, November 3, 2016
J ennifer Smith was present with her dog. She gave the board information on Charlotte’s Litter Bringing Therapy
Dogs to Your School. The Board discussed parental permission slips and liability insurance. No action was taken
at this time. Discussion only.

4. Request for out of State Travel from Mike Harris to take a group of students to Mammoth Ski Area in
Mammoth Lakes, California in December 2016 and March 2017. (Discussion/ For Possible Action)

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the travel request from Mike Harris to take a group of students to
Mammoth Ski Area in Mammoth Lakes, California in December 2016 and March 2017. Donna Glazier seconded
the motion. Vote: Keith NevilIe-Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Ma rk N ixon—Yes, Sheryl Samson—Yes. Motion
passed.

5. Review updated Job Description for Adult Education Assistant Coordinatc-r. (Discussiem’For Possible Action)

Sheryl Samson made the motion to accept the Job Description for Adult Education Assistant Coordinator with the
change ofclassiﬁcation from conﬁdential t0 unclassiﬁed. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Keith
Neville—Yes, Don na GIazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed.

6. Discussion on the Sixth Street School Phase I Environmental Site Assessment from BBC Environmental, Inc.,
which may include possible action to move forward with the Brownsﬁeld Project or possibly deeding the
building to Mineral County. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

Mr. Hackford and the Board discussed the ﬁrst phase of the Brownsﬁed project being complete. They discussed
deeding the building to the County which would need to be done within 90 days. The Board also discussed
scheduling a joint meeting with the County Commissioners. A letter would need to be drafted from the Board
President. Mr. Nixon said he would meet with the DA. Sean Rowe to work on it. Sheryl Samson made the
motion that the Board draft a letter to Mineral County by Tuesday, November 8th with Sean Rowe’s attention
drawn into it regarding gifting the 6th Street School to Mineral County for free. Donna Glazier seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith NevilIe-Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed.

7. Discussion on hiring a Full-Time Paraprofessional for the ELL program at Schurz Elementary to be paid out of
grant funding. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

Pam Wells explained the need for a FulI-Time Paraprofessional for the ELL program in Schurz which has the
largest population on ELL students within the district. Donna Glazier made the motion to approve hiring a Full-
Time Paraprofessional for the ELL program at Schurz Elementary to be paid out of grant funding. Sheryl Samson
Seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville~Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon—Yes, Sheryi Samson—Yes.
Motion passed.

8. Approvel'Accept Emergency Response & Cross Connection Control Plan. (Discussiom’F or Possible Action)

Tom Gallegos explained to the Board that the Cross Connection Control Plan is a requirement of the State. Mr.
Gallegos with the help of Larry Grant from Hawthorne Utilities, and Mike Boney from Rural Nevada Water have
Spent many hours on the plan which will be submitted to the State upon approval. Sheryl Samson made the motion
to accept the Emergency Response and Cross Connection Control Plan as presented. Donna Glazier seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed.

9. First Reading of a new Board Policy: Monitor Federal Grants (Discussion Only)

Mr. Hackford explained the need for the new policy which is an EDGAR requirement. Discussion on the ﬁrst
reading only.

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES

Thursday, November 3, 2016
10. Second reading of new Policy: One to One Technology Equipment Agreement. (Discussion/For Possible

Action)
Donna Glazier made the motion to approve the new policy One to One Technology Equipment Agreement as

written. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes,
Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed.

11. Review Administrative Regulation: DN district Properties Disposition. (lnformation/Discussion Only)

Mr. Hackford presented Administrative Regulation DN District Properties which was revised to comply with
EDAGR and other grant requirements. Discussion Only ’

l2. Accept the Resign ation of Crystal Brown, approve advertisement, and set date to interview applicants for the
outside seat. (DiseussioufFor Possible Action)

Sheryl Samson made the motion to accept the resignation of Crystal Brown, advertise the vacancy ASAP, and hold
interviews during the ﬁrst regular meeting in December. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Keith
Neville—Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed.

13. Discussion on Board Policy BBAA Individual Board Member’s Authority and Responsibilities. and Policy
KLD Public Complaints about District Personnel. (Discussion Only)

Mr. Neville asked the Board to review the policies. Discussion Only

14. Schedule a Training for current and-new board members with Pool/Pact on the role and responsibilities of the
Board of Trustees. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

Mr. Hackford discussed scheduling a training with Pool/Pact on the role and responsibilities the Board since we
will have three new members in January. The Board agreed and thought a workshop would=work well. They
suggested he schedule it and let them know. Discussion Only

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1. Correspondence & Announcements - None

2. Board Member Reports — Sheryl Samson mentioned the article iii the paper about the JAG students and talked
about the Spaghetti dinner and the Bond.

3. Superintendent’s Report’s — Mr. Hackford’s report was included in the backup. Mr. Neville asked if anyone
had any questions. There were none.

4. Administrator Reports- There were 110 administrator reports

5. Technology Report— Will Keady was present for questions on his report which was provided In the backup.
No questions were asked on the report but Mr. Neville asked Mr Keady if he could ﬁnd some old laptops for
the Board to use in the Board Room and take to meetings.

6. . Person or Group Recognition - None

GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

h is the School Board’s intention to listen and be reslaonsive lo the general publie's concerns. Comments from the public regarding tupics not an the agenda are
invited at this time You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comment period or by completing a Request to Address the MCSD
Beard form prior It! lhc General Public Comment period. The'Board will answet questions 111' discuss tn the best of their ability items that are introduced. l-Iowever.

by law. the Board cannet take any action. reach a coﬂscnsus or hear personal attacks at this time Those who submit the form will normally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum Elf3 minutes. The President may allow additional time to a given speaker as time allows and 111 hisiher sole discretion.

Arlo Funk asked about the Star ratings and current enrollment and how Pre-K is funded.

ADJOURNNIENT: 6:46

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, November 3, 2016

Respectfully submitted;

 

