MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, December 01, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on December 01, 2016 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5:30 pm. by the Board President, Keith Neville.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT: Donna Glazier
Mark Nixon

Sheryl Samson
ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent

OTHERS PRESENT: Marty J ohnson, Ryan Henry, Pam Wells, Sandra Weissman, Stephanie Wright,
Tyler Viani, Julia Viani, Kathy Trujillo, Amber Reid

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Discussion and possible action on a resolution concerning the ﬁnancing of school improvements;
directing the Superintendent to notify the Mineral County Debt Management Commission of the
District’s proposal to issue general obligation bonds in the maximum aggregate principal amount of
$2,500,000; authorizing the Superintendent or the Finance Manager to arrange for the sale of bonds;
providing certain details in connection therewith; and providing the effective date. (Discussiom’For
Possible Action) ‘

The Resolution and information on the Bond was presented by Marty J ohnson, JNA Consulting and Ryan
Henry, Sherman & Howard. Sheryl Samson made the motion to adopt the resolution concerning the ﬁnancing
of school improvements; directing the Superintendent to notify the Mineral County Debt Management
Commission ofﬂte District’s proposal to issue general obligation bonds in the maximum aggregate principal
amount of 32.5003000; authorizing the Superintendent or the Finance Manager to arrange for the sale of bonds.
Mark Nixon seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes. Sheryl Samson-Yes. 3-0-0
Motion passed.

2. First reading of new Board Policy: Allowance of Service Animals. (Discussion Only)

The Board reviewed the proposed new Board Policy and Administrative Regulation. Among some concerns
were District liability, insurance. and parental permission. This item will be bought back at the next meeting.
Discussion only.

3. Discussion and approval of the English Language Learner (ELL) Policy Manual. Discussioan or
Possible Action)

Pam Wells presented the Manual as a requirement oFthe ELL program. Sheryl Samson made the motion to
approve. the ELL Policy Manual as presented. Mark Nixon seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes,
Mark Nixon—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. 3-0-0 Motion passed.

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, December 01, 2016

Sheryl Samson made the motion to move into closed session pursuant to NRS 241.030. Mark Nixon seconded
the motion. Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. 3-0-0 Motion passed.

CLOSED SESSION:

Pursuant to NRS 241.030 to discuss and develop the interview questions for the Board Member
interviews. (Discussion Only)

The Board discussed and reviewed the current list of interview questions.

ACTION ITEMS (FOR POSSIBLE ACTION) CONTINUED:

Mark Nixon made the motion to move back into open session. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote:
Keith Neville-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. 3-0-0 Motion passed.

4. Approval of the final interview questions discussed in closed session. (Discussion/F or Possible Action)
The interview questions were discussed in closed session. No action was taken on this item.

5. Discussion on the State School Professional Program presentation from Kathy Trujillo and Julia Viani.
(Information/Discussion Only)

Kathy Trujillo and Julia Viani gave a presentation and discussed the State School Professional Program.
Amber Reid from the Nevada Department of Education was also in attendance for the discussion and answered
questions from the Board and public as well. Discussion and information only.

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: November 22, 2016
2. Payroll Vouchers: 1054, 1055
3. Payroll Checks: 82388 -82427
4. Warrants: 16823 - 16890

Consent item number one (1) was pulled from the consent agenda. Sheryl Samson made the motion to
approve consent items 2-4. Mark Nixon seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Mark N ixon-Yes,

Sheryl Samson-Yes. 3-0-0 Motion passed.

COMMUNICATIONS AND REPORTS: (FOR DISCUSSION ONLY)

1. Correspondence & Announcements — None
2. Board Member Reports - None
3. Person or Group Recognition - None

GENERAL PUBLIC COMTWENT:

II is the School Board's mtmticm to listen and lie responsive to line general public‘s concerns. Comments from the public regarding topics not cm the agenda an?
invited at this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comment period or by completing a Request to Address the MCSD
Beard form prior 10 111:: General Public Comment period. The Board will answer questions or discuss to the best ol‘thcir ability items that are introduced. Iluwevcr,
by law. the Board cannot take any actinn. reach a consensus or hear personal attacks :11 this time. Those who submit the form will normally be called on first.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum of 3 minute5. The President may allow additional lime to a given speaker as time allows and in hisfher sole discretion.

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, December 01, 2016

ADJOURNNIENT: 7:10

Respectfully submitted;

 

