MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Wednesday, December 21, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on December 21, 2016 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5:45 pm. by the Board President, Keith Neville.

MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT: Mark Nixon
Donna Glazier
Sheryl Samson

ADNHNISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent

OTHERS PRESENT: Schyler Hagen, Garth Price, Tyler Viani, Randy Samson, Sandra Weissman,
‘ Daria Benton

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
A Moment of Silence was observed and then the Pledge of Allegiance was recited

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Interview candidates to fill the vacant outside seat on the Board of Trustees. (Discussion Only)

After a brief discussion on the current term ending December 31, 2016 and a new unexpired term for the
vacant seat beginning on January 1, 2017, this item was tabled to the January 5, 2017 meeting so the new
Board Members could take part in the interview and selection process.

2. Discussion on appointing a new board member to ﬁll the vacant outside seat on the Board of Trustees
beginning January 1, 2017. (Discussion/F or Possible Action)

Tabled to January 5, 2017

3. Discuss and approve the FY 2017 Augmented Budget for submission to the Department of Taxation by
December 315', 2016. (Discussioanor Possible Action}

The Board reviewed the FY20] 'I Augmented Budget with the Superintendent and Sandra Weissman, Finance
Manager. Donna Glazier made the motion to approve the FY2017 Augmented Budget for submission to the
Department of Taxation by December 31. 2016. Vote: Keith Neville - Yes, Donna Glazier — Yes, Sheryl
Samson — Yes. Motion passed.

4. Discussion on the revision to Article 7-1 of the Mineral County Classroom Teachers Negotiated
Agreement 2015-2017. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

The Board reviewed revised Article 7—1 as presented which the Superintendent explained basically was just
cleaning up language. Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the revision to Article 7-] ofﬂte Mineral
County C Isssroom Teachers Negotiated Agreement 2015-2017 as presented. Donna Glazier seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Donna Glazier — Yes, Sheryl Samson -— Yes. Motion passed.

MTNERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES

Wednesday, December 21, 2016

5. Annual review of Board Policy: KABB Policies and Prueed tires for Indian Children. as per Public Law
81-874, and as required by the Impact Aid Federal Program. (Discussiom'fr 01' Possible Action)

Mr. Hackford explained that the District is required to review this policy annually as a requirement of Public
Law 81-874, and the Impact Aid program. He let them know that we also hold a public meeting in Schurz with
the Tribal Education Department and stakeholders every year to review the policy and bring the suggestions
back to the Board for consideration. This year at the meeting was held on December 5, 2016. The Policy was
reviewed, and a request to revise the amount of School Board meetings held in Schurz from 1 meeting per
quarter (4 per year) to 6 Meetings per year was made. Another request was for the administrators make sure
they are informing all parents and the community of important meetings such as budget and school
improvement planning. Mr. Hackford informed the Board that he has already spoke with the administrators
about it. This item will be brought back at the next meeting to revise the number of meetings as requested.
Discussion Only. ' ‘

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: November 22, 2016
2. Payroll Vouchers: 1058, 1059, 1065, 1066
3. Payroll Checks: 82428 — 82492
4. Warrants: 16891 — 16943

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve consent items 1-4 as read. Sheryl Samson seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Donna Glazier — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes. Motion passed.

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1. Correspondence 8: Announcements - None

2. Board Member Reports — Name

3. Superintendent's Report _ The Superintendents report was included in the backup material pack. There
were no questions or discussion on his report.

4. Administrator Reports — Reports from the Administrators were included in the backup material pack. None
of the Administrators were in attendance. There were no discussion or questions.

5. Maintenance Report — Mr. Gallegos provided his report in the backup but was not present to give his report.
There were no questions or discussion on the report.

6. Person or Group Recognition — The Board and Superintendent recognized outgoing Board Members Donna
Glazier and Mark Nixon for their many years of service and support to MCSD students and staffas well as the
Community.

GENERAL PUBLIC C OMNIENT:

It is the School Board's intention to listen and be responsive to the general public‘s concerns. Comments from the public regarding topics net on the agenda are
invited in :his time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comment period or by completing a Request to Address the MC‘SD
Beard farm prinr tu the General Public Comment period. The Board will answer questions or disuusa to the best oFlheir ability items that are introduced. However.
by law. the Bean! cannot take any action. reach a consensus or hear personal attacks at lhis Ilrne. Those who submit the form will nermally he called on ﬁrst.
Speaking lime will be limited to a maximum ef3 minutes, The President may allew additiunal time to a given speaker as time allows and in '1leth sale discretion.

ADJOURNMENT: 6:18 p. .

  

Respectfully submitted;

