MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, February 11, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public workshop on February 11, 2016 beginning 3:00 pm. at Maggie’s
Once More785 E Street in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Tmstees was called to order at

3 :00 pm. by the Board President Keith Neville
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT: Donna Glazier
Barbara Lancaster
Mark Nixon
Sheryl Samson
ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent
OTHERS PRESENT: Patricia Stoddard, Ann Kee, Mike Domagala

Patricia Stoddard, Finance Manager stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.

CONSENT ITEMS:

1.

Minutes: January 14, 2016 Workshop

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to approve the minutes of January 14, 2016. Sheryl Samson seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Barbara Lancaster—Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl S'amsan-Yes. Motion
passed

ACTION ITEMS:

1.

Development of :1 Governance Calendar listing all reports, grants, evaluations, and any other signiﬁcant
deadlines for the District.

Mark Nixon stated that the District used to have a governance calendar awhile back, but it’s something that
went by the wayside. A governance calendar is a calendar of deadlines and important due dates for reports,
grants, teacher evaluations, etc. It’s an important tool for everyone. It helps the Board fulﬁll everything that
needs to be done. It will help the Superintendent hold people accountable. Walt said he was sure his staff
could get it together. Barbara Lancaster asked if it eou Id be done by the next workshop. Walt said yes. Mark
added that he would like to see some kind of certiﬁcation that can be submitted to the Board that things were
done. He said it can even be submitted monthly with the Superintendent’s report. Barbara Lancaster made the
motion to give the Superintendent the responsible of the development of a preliminazy governance calendar
and bring it back at the next workshop to be followed up in the monthly Superintendent’s report monitoring
the calendar. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yu, Barbara [anesster-Yes, Mark
Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed -

Development of an Athletic Directors checklist (High School and J r. High") that will deﬁne monthly
responsibilities and obligations throughout the course of the year. This checklist is to he included in the
Coaching Handbook.

Keith Neville began the discussion by saying this (checklist) is basically what we just did (governance
calendar) but for athletics. A checklist for principals and athletic directors needs to be developed so everyone
knows what needs to be done regardless of'tumover. All coaches must pass a background check and take the
coaching classes before they can coach. These courses are required by NR5 and NIAA. Reports need to be

1

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MNU'I‘ES

Thursday, February 11, 2016
turned into NlAA, and with the turnover things aren't being done. Barbara Lancaster made the motion to
appoint Mr. Neville to work with the Principal to develop the checklist and put it on the agenda for approval at
the next workshop. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Barbara Lancaster-Yes,
Mark N ixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed

Discussion on the Bond issue.

President Neville stated that he added this item to the agenda. He started by saying the reason he wanted to
discuss this item is because the Board messed up last time and did not do a good job. In part because he
wasn’t sure how involved the Board could be in the promotion of the bond. Mr. Nixon agreed. Keith
suggested that each member recruit a community member to form a Bond Committee to promote the rollover
bond. He also stated he believed another reason the bond didn’t pass last time was because of the Capitol
Project List. One item in particular, the “green building” which should have been torn down with funds ﬁom
the original bond. The Board at the time choose to upgrade to metal roofs on the new schools (SES 8t HES)
instead of tearing the building down which was a better use of the money but didn’t relay that information to
the community and it’s now a sore subject with many people. Mr. Nixon stated it’s imperative that we pass
the rollover bond. Taxes will not change, meaning they will not go up or down. Either part can go to the
schools or all will go to the County. Barbara Lancaster talked about what she is hearing from many of the
people in the outlying communities as well as many of the elderly who do not have children in school. Many
of them of them want the money to go back to the County so they can put more money into their areas. The
original amount of the bond was .60 cents but we are now only receiving .28 cents and the County is keeping
the rest. Economic development was also a topic discusSed. Mr. Neville said that as he was nying to recruit a
community member she gave him some good ideas to promote thehond such as, if you invest in education you
invest in business. If you do not put money into your schools, economic development will not work. The
Board reviewed the capitol project list. They removed a few items and asked the Superintendent to have the
list edited and prioritized. They discussed having tri-fold brochures printed to get information out to the
community. The need to get donations and raise funds to pay for the brochures. Marty Johnson, INA
Consulting will be helping the District with the rollover. Mr, I-Iackford said we need a group of people who
are interested in the Bond to be at the next meeting. Mr. Marty Johnson ﬁ'om JNA Consulting is scheduled on
the agenda. Mr. Johnson will be consulting with the District thought the process and will be giving the board
information on bond options and answering questions. Board information on how to get a rollover bond and
the timelines. Before moving on to the next item Mr. Neville suggested everyone bring someone to the next
meeting.

Discussion Article IV Evaluation (A) of the Superintendent’s Contract.

Sheryl Samson requested this item She said she was just concerned aﬁer reviewing the Superintendent’s
contract. The Performance Standards said the Board will create a formal document rather than the fluid
document the Board has been discussing with Mr. Haekford. Barbara Lancaster asked, aren’t the minutes
formal? Walt said, I don’t have a problem with what you are doing. I’m happy with what you have decided
upon and if it means I need to amend my contract, and you agree to an amended paragraph there, I can
certainly do that as well. Sheryl said, that is the concern I have is the way it reads. Mr. Neville said, we all
have that concern but, the problem is we don’t have anything measurable that we can put in that document.
Except, right now this governance calendar just became one measurable item we can put in this document.
Barbara added that it will be brought up every month and in the minutes it will say if that wasn’t met so I
guess it's, what is your deﬁnition of formal? Mr. Hackford said ifyou’re concerned with my deﬁnition of that,
I’m happy with what you are doing with the minutes. Mr. Neville stated that the Board does nwd to come up
with a document of some kind we can use to do his evaluation with before May I“. Mr. Haekford
commented, something I can put in a portfolio that if I do move on at some point later on a district could look
at. Mr. Nixon said a formal document could be an amendment to this article saying that the Board has
declared that a ﬂuid evaluation process is applicable. That could be your formal document, the amendment to
article IV. Keith added until we have something measurable- Sheryl said, Ijust wanted to cover our side.

2

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, February 11, 2016

Keith talked about issues they had with the document they used for a former Superintendent. Mark said, when
we hired that Superintendent we had them do a presentation on what their goals would be for the district and
that became what we used for the evaluation. But it was too open ended and subjective for the board members
so the lawyers took it and rewrote it. What we got back was bad. Mrs. Samson said, so if we did an
amendment saying we are going to do it this way, I would feel better so that nothing comes back that we didn’t
do what was agreed. Mr. Neville said, I can see a couple things that will work and add some accountability to
the document. The morale of the district, we can put that on there because we can measure that the district
morale is higher or lower. Test scores, we can’t mess with that because the test situation is so horrible that
anyone would fail that one. Sheryl said, attendance may be altered in ways we can’t control so we can put that
down. Walt said, we have discussed aligning cuniculum and curriculum guides. Mark agreed that curriculum
alignment is what we need. Sheryl said, yes that was one of your top 3 and morale. Mark stated I don’t know
how we are going to put morale because there are thing that are going to hit us from the Dept. ofEd that we
have zero control over. Barbara commented, so morale is out of your control. Sheryl said, I don't think we
can put that on you. There could be a morale issue because of something bigger than you. Mark stated if we
put morale on there we might be hamstringing him to do his job. Keith said on the other end the morale is
better than it was. Mark said yes it is without a doubt. Keith said, it’s a measurable thing but you are right
about that. Walt'is going to make some peeple mad. Barbara pointed out that his compliment will now be in
the minutes as part of the ﬂuid evaluation process, that the morale since you have taken over has improved.
Sheryl asked do you think after a year, the following year we will build to something more formal. Mark said,
deﬁnitely. We are building a baseline. Walt stated that each workshops we are clarilying and deﬁning what are
goals are as a district He went on to say, I know we need curriculum mapping, 1 know we need curriculum
aligned, and this govemanoe calendar, the AD checklist. These are things that I’m picking up out of these
worlcshOps that now] believe are the Boards directives to me and now I need to act upon them. Each
workshop we have it gets a little more deﬁned as to what is expected which are measurable. A month from
now as these things are sounded oﬂ‘,_l will give you an account of what has been done, and what needs to be
done in my Board report. That is measurable, am 1 following through with Board goals. I’m comfortable with
that. So do we amend something like that, Sheryl asked? Mr. Haekford said, I‘m happy, not going to grieve
anything, you have been more than fair to me as a superintendent. Mark said, he agreed with Sheny, it
wouldn’t hurt to do an amendment to article 4. It can be something simple. Walt said, he will draft an
amendment and bring it before the Board at the next meeting.

Development of a Board Mission Statement.

Mr. Nixon would like the Board to work on a new mission statement. We have one and it can still apply. We
just need to change the way that we are addressing it. The thing about the mission statement is we have to
build everything we do around the statement. Guidelines tell us it should be posted on our website, letterhead,
and in the board room. What we need to have is longevity and consistency in our program of where we are
going. The Board didn't have a copy of the current mission statement to work' from but Ann Kee was able to
pull it up on the website and read it to the Board.

Mineral County School District 19 Mission is to promote a culture of student achievement generating lifelong
learners (hrs ugh proﬁssionah’sm and its accomtability for eﬁective reaching and learning community.

The vision OfIhe Mineral County School District is to become the best system where graduates can be
competitive for any degree or job they pursue.

lire Mnera! County Board of T rustees believes being united in workingfor the best education possiblefor 010'
children. The District believes it is important to instill in our children apride in our District and the
education they receive here: and to prepare our students to compete in todqyis society.

MJNERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, F ebruary 11, 2016
Barbara Lancaster made the comment that it‘s way too long in her opinion. It all makes sense but 1 think we
can reword it better to shorten it. Mark said, we need to develop what we are going to do. Stick to it and
follow through, we may have to make adjustments here and there. Barbara Spoke about a meeting she went to
that had speaker who spoke about how impressed he was about a district whose mission statement was, we
support our teachers. It really had an effect on the teachers and their attitudes changed. Marl: said, he’s not
sure he is sold on that. He understands the concept but he isn’t sure it would work for us. ‘Walt said, I’m not
sure our teachers feel supported or appreciated. And that is why the board made the statement we support our
teachers, Barbara said. Walt said, that goes for our staff and everyone who works for this district that gives so
much of their'time, blood, and sweat. [don’t think there is enough appreciation for each other, from the top
down, or from the community. We need to turn that around. Mark said, the curriculum mappin g is supporting
our teachers. It will give them tools, right now they are just guessing. Sheryl asked how old this smtement
was. Mark said, a couple of superintendmm ago. She spoke about the bad image the public has about our
schools and graduates. We need to let them know we have some good kids graduating. Mark said, that is why
we need to develop our program to the mission statement. Sheryl said, we need to let everyone know it’s a
new day. We need to change the past and get the momentum going. Until people grasp the vision of that,
they are going to continue being negative. Barbara made a suggestion for the mission statement, we are
preparing the community‘s future, or we are dedicated to deveIOping the community’s ﬁiture. Mark
commented, that is what we are doing. Walt said, it has a team feel to it. Barbara then amended it to, we are
dedicated to building the future of Mineral County. Mark said, I like that, short and t0 the point. Barbara
suggested it be put on the tri-fol'd brochures for the bond promotion. Walt said, we need to get the word out
that we have great teachers and staff in this district that are working hard for Mineral County’s future. Keith
saggested this item be brought back with a copy of the original statement.

Discussion on deﬁning performance standards that will include goals and objectives which shall include
encouragement of student achievement as well as the responsibilities of the Superintendent as set forth
in the job description, and will be incorporated into the Superintendent’s performance evaluation as
outlined in Board Policy.

President Neville commented that this item was pretty much covered this in item 4. Walt said, hejust wanted
to comment on the MAP testing. He said, that the MAP window will close tomorrow. He said, the scores
have improved as they always do from fall to winter. He will have the administrators do a MAP presentation
at the next meeting so you can see how the students have done from fall to winter. Mark made the comment
that when the MAP scares were ﬁrst presented to him, he had no clue what he was looking at. He asked Mr.
Hackford if he could do a tutorial on how to read the scores and data. Sheryl asked about the next testing that
the students need to take seriously. Walt said, the State (CRT) testing is what they need to take seriously. Last
year the State rolled out the SBAC test but, the students bombed on the test and they did such a poor of rolling
it out that they have already thrown it out. There will be a new State assessment this year which we have been
rushed to get ready and are nervous about. These test are what the STAR ratings are based on. He explained
that MAP testing is only in house testing the teachers and board use to measure growth. CRT tests are the
State assessments. that they are ﬂoundering to put together and last year is a mess. He went on to say that if
there is dysﬁmction in education, as much as the Governor would like to blame the districts, dysfunction starts
with the Legislature and Deparunent of Ed. Keith asked if the State Superintendent gotten back to you on your
letter. The Superintendent informed the rest of the Board that he and Mr. Nixon sent a letter along with the
audit that was done, and our concerns (regarding the loss of the BSA) in an email to Steve Canavero. We
asked for an audience so the three of us can meet with him to talk about our DSA issues but, [have not heard
back. I did talk to him at a NASS meeting a couple of weeks ago. He told me to send him the email so I’m
still hopeful we will get back some of the DSA funding back. Keith asked ifanyone else had anything. Mark
said, yes he had a couple of things. He went on to say that ORMAT came through with a lot of money for the
County. I told everyone, and it was no secret that we were going to protest and they are still saying Mineral
County is protesting. wen they (ORMAT) caught most of it up last week. They paid all of the back money
owed on the renewable energy permits. I’m a little confused on the amount, I was given two different
amounts, and it could include some ofthe delinquent geothennal proceeds. and centrally assessediad valorern

4

MNERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MJNUTES
Thursday, February 11, 2016
but, we will be getting some of that money. After the abatements, the last sheet I looked at said we should be
getting about $80,000 a quarter but that 'wi ll reﬂect hack on the wealth factor so there will be adjusted in the
DSA. We will need to pay close attention and hit back immediately if there are any discrepancies. It will be
very eonﬁising so it would probably be wise to have Wade look at it even if it cost us a little money. There is-a
lot of money that the schools could be getting on the governmental services side and from the sales tax,
approximately $2.5 million. Mr. Nixon also talked about NDOT getting most of their money back. He said,
there is a real good possibility we might get sidewalks all the way down from 5'h all the way as far as 91h street
with pullouts for buses. It‘s going to be a county project that Mr. Trujillo will be in charge of. This is only for
infonnation. at this point because we don’t know where it will go. He informed the board about another
pamphlet he received about a Mineral County bicycle plan that NDOT is putting together. in looking at it we
can address bicycle paths ﬁ'om the schools, and baffle flow. Mr. Hackford ﬁlled the Board in on the meeting
held in Schurz last night. At the meeting Mr. Hackford informed the WRPT and SES Parents that he is
proposing to close 7‘h & 8“1 grades at SES next year, making SES 3 K-6 School. He said, there are only 6
students going into 7'“1 and 8‘1‘ grades next year and one teacher is dedicated to only 6 students. That teacher
would better serve the district in a K—6 setting with combo classes of only 2 grades, and those students (7'ttl &
8“” graders) needs better served in a Jr. High setting. He told the heard his proposal was met with much
resistance. He said, there is some fear because oftradition, SES has always been a K-S school. They is
suspicious he is trying to close the school to give money to the Hawthorne. He said, he assured them he was
not tying to close the school, he is only trying to improve academies. Also, one of the perks of being a K-S
school is some of the younger students get to participate in Jr. High athletics and they don’t want to lose that.
Mr. Hackford said he spoke with Candice Birchum from the WRPT Education Department who seemed to be
on board with it. The proposal will need to come before the Board but it is not to that point yet. Mr. Haokford
said, SES will be sending out letters and surveys to all of the parents to get feedback. He said he will keep the
board updated and bring it back at a later date.

GENERAL PUBLIC COIWMENT:

[t is the School Board‘s intention to listen and be mm to the general public's concerns. Commute titan the public regarding topics not on the agenda
are imrited at this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comment period or by completing a Request to Address the
MCSD Board form prior to the General Public Comment period. The Board will answer questions or dismiss to the best. of their ability items that are
introduced. However. by law. the Board ammo: take arty action. teach a consensus or hear personal snacks at this time. Those who submit the fon'n will
normaIly be called on ﬁrst. Speaking time will be limited to a maximum of3 minutes. The President may allow additional time to a given speaker as time
allows and in histher sole discretion.

ADJOURNMENT: 5115 EM

Respectfully submitted;

      

-: - (3152in, élerlt - -

