MINERAL COUNT Y SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, F ebruary 18, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on F ebruary 18, 2016 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was

called to order at 5:30 pm. by the Board President, Keith Neville.

MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:

Barbara Lancaster
Donna Glazier
Mark Nixon

Sheryl Samson

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; Stephanie Keuhey, HES Principal

OTHERS PRESENT: Patricia Stoddard, Sean Rowe, Spring Blazewick, Hepe Blinco. Arlo Funk,

Jam's Horn, Les Horn, Marty Johnson, Joe Birch, Nicky Rodriguez, Diane
Rodriguez, Debbie Tarleton, Sandra J ones, Candice Birchum, Christy Grant

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
A Moment of Silence was observed and then the Pledge of Allegiance was recited

ACTION ITEMS:

1.

3.

10.

ll.

12.

Discussion for possible action on a Bond Proposal.
Marty Johnson discussed the bond options with the Board and Superintendent.

Donna Glazier made the motion to move forward with the roll over bond proposal. Sheri Samson seconded
the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Barbara Lancaster—Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes,
Sheri Samson—Yes. Motion passed 5-0-0

Discussion on the update from the 4 Day School Week Committee.
Joe Birch informed the Board of the public meetings and survey results. Discussion for information only.

Discussion for possible actiou on the lCATIIntervention CoordinatorlLearning Specialist job
description.

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to approve the job description changing to 200 Days, and under required,
take out Bachelor Degree, change to must be a Certiﬁed Teacher. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote:
Keith Neville-Yes, Barbara Lancaster-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yee, Mark Nixou-Yes, Sheri Samson-Yes.
Motion passed 5-0—0

Discussion for wible action on the Professional Negotiation Agreement between Mineral County
School District and the Mineral County Classroom Teachers Association for the years 2015-16 and

20164017.

Janis Horn read a letter from History Teacher Darren Hammy who could not be present for the record:
1

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, February 18, 2016
Minerat County Schaoi Board.

It is with great disappointment that I write this letter to the Mineral Co unty School Board with regards
to the most recent negotiated contract proposai and adoption. I apologize that I am unable to present this
fetter mysetﬁ however, I am ehaperoning the Pep Chit) to the basketbaii zone tournament in Reno.

I ﬁre! it my obligation to inform you quy-eaneerns regarding the negotiated contract for the 20M-
ZOI 7 schooi year and beyond. It has been proposed that two extracurricular positions that I cmentty haia‘
be drastically changed F irst the proposal will compieteiy eliminate the position ofStudent Councii Adviser, a
position that I have heid since I began working here in 2003. I am paid right aromtd $2. OOOfor this position.
Second the proposat wit? reduce the pay of the Student Activities Director by haiﬁ a position in which I have
held since 2008. This position pays around 3 7, 000.

When these changes take place I wiII take nearly a $5,500 toss in my annnaipay. Keep in mind that
when I am paidfar these two positions. in addition to Coaching Baseball, I am taxed nearly $3,500 due to the
amaunt of the check (which basically means I coach basebaiifarﬁee).

After these changes were proposed man y teachers were unhappy. We dismissed our concerns with
the Union and negotiations were opened back up. At this point I was qaproached for theﬁrst time about my
saggestionsfor reductions. The need for reductions were never explained to me. However, my praposai to the
Union (if we had to make cuts) was to reduce the StudentAetivities positon from I .8 to L5 and give the
remaining .3 to Les Ham (0 increase his payfar Jr. High AthIetie Director. Aiso, to Keep in place the current
Student Counciiposition. My suggestionsfeit on dedears. Instead my pay was reduced by hat'ffor Student
Activities, myposition afStua'ent Council (Adviser) was eiiminated. mdfor some reason a NEWpositian of
Assistant Student Activities Director was created. I have no idea where this additionaiposition cameﬁ'am. I
never askedfar an assistant and have never received an unsatisfactory evaluation that might tend to the idea
that I need some “heip. "

Let me say that I have no problem taking one for the team. Ifreductions need to he made then they
shouid be made across the board. What this new contract does is severely reduce the pay of ONE individuai,
M! I am the one taking the largest hit. It is wtfair and discriminatory, and I am oﬁended by the action the
School District is about to make. I can understand eiiminating positions that are currentiy vacant but
eiiminating aposition that has been heidfar the last I 3 years is qppaiiiitg.

I feet I have been made a target became I currentb' hold both positions. chese positions were held
by two diﬂerent peopie, I think this proposai would not have been made. I feet like some people believe that I
get paid too much for the warkI do and are bent on making sure that they change it. I may be wrong,
however. the evidence and process I) y which this was carried out leaves no other Option for me than to feel this
way. Thank you for your time.

Sineeret’y,
Darren Hamrey

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the Professional Negotiation Agreement between Mineral County
School District and the Mineral County Classroom Teachers Association for the years 2015-16 and 2016—
2017. Mark Nixon seconded the motion. Vote: Keith NevillebYes, Barbara Lancaster—Yea, Donna Glazier-
Yes, Mark NixomYes, Sheri Samson-Yea. Motion passed 5-0-0

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, February 18, 2016

Discussion for possible action to approve out of State travel for Hope Blinco to attend a Human
Resources professional development in Washington, D.C. on June 20—23, 2016.

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve out of State travel for Hope Blinco to attend a Human Resources
professional development in Washington, D.C. on J une 20—23, 2016. Donna Glazier seconded the motion.
Vote: Keith Neﬁlle-Yes, Barbara Lancaster—Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheri Samson.
Yes. Motion passed 5—0-0

Discussion for possible action on the second reading of revised Policy GBB6 Mineral County School
District Drug and Alcohol Policy.

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to approve the second reading of revised Policy GBBIS Mineral County
School District Drug and Alcohol Policy. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Keith NevilIe-Ym,
Barbara Laneaster—Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheri Samson-Yes. Motion passed 5—0—0

Discussion for possible action on the 6“ Street School.

This item was tabled to be brought back after opinion of the District Attorney.

Discussion for possible action an adoption of textbooks for CTE classes.

Sheryl Samson made the motion to adopt the list of textbooks for CTE classes as presented. Donna Glazier
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville‘Ya, Barbara Lancaster-Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon-

Yee, Sheri Samson-Ya. Motion passed 541-!)

Discussion for possible action on adding an EMT course for CTE Program for 2016-2017.

Donna Glazier made the motion to add an EMT course for the GTE Program for 2016-2017. Sheryl Samson
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Nevilie—Yes, Barbara Lancaster-Yee, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon-

Yes, Sheri Samson—Yes. Motion passed 5-0-0

Discussion for possible action to approve postingthiring a Principal at Schnrz Elementary for the 201.6-
2017 school year.

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve postingthiring a Principal at Sehurz Elementary for the 2016-2017
school year. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: KeithNeviile—Yes, Barbara Lancaster-Yee,
Donna Glazier—Ym, Mark NuomYes, Sheri SamsonnYes. Motion passed 5-0—0

Discussion for mible action to appoint MCSD Board Members to the following: Park and Recreation
Committee, Consolidated Agenda of Human Services, Legislative Committee, Nevada Public Agency
Insurance Pool, Nevada Association of School Boards Directors (2 Members - Director and Alternate
Director), Mineral County Debt Management Committee, Insurance Committee, Budget Committee,
Attendance Committee, Sex Education Committee, Certiﬁed Negotiations Team, and Classiﬁed
Negotiations Team.

This item was tabled t0 the next workshop (March 9, 2016).
Discussion for .p_ossihle action on the 2016 Board Meeting Calendar.

Mark Nixon made the motion to approve the 2016 Board Meeting Calendar with the addition of a workshop
scheduled for March 9, 2016. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Barbara
Lancaster-Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon-Yee, Sheri Samson-Yes. Motion passed 5—0—0

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, February 18, 2016

CONIMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

P'PP’P'."

Correspondence & Announcements
Board Member Reports
Superintendent’s Report
Transportation Report

Person or Group Recognition

CONSENT ITEMS:

?PP’.‘

Minutes: . January 21, 2016
Payroll Vouchers: 1072, 1083
Payroll Checks: 81697-81737
Warrants: 15324-15339

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to approve consent items 1-4 as read. Donna Glazier secunded the motion.
Vole: Keith Neville-Yes, Barbara Lancaster-Yee, Donna Glazier-Yee, Mark Nixow—Yes, Sheri Samson—Yes.
Motion passed 5—0—0

GENERAL PUBLIC Comm:

It is the School Board‘s_inten1iun to listen and be responsive to the germs} public’s eonoems. Comments hunt the public regarding topics not on the agenda are
invited a: this time. You may request to speak hy raisimg your hand during the General Public comment period or by enmpieting a Request to Address the MCSD
Board form prior tothe General Public Comm period. The Board will answer questions or disutss to the best of their ability items that are inaoduced. However.
by law; the Board mm! take median, reach a commas or hear personal am at this time. Those who submit the farm will nonmlly he called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited Id 11 mexirrmn of' 3 minutes. The President may allow additional lime to a given speaker as time allows and in higher sole disutttion.

ADJOURNMENT: 7:43

Respectfully submitted;

 

