MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, March 16, 2017

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on March 16, 2017 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Main Ofﬁce Building at Schurz Elementary School in Schurz, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at S :30 pm. by the Board President, Keith Nevilie.

MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:
Sheryl Samson
Tyler Viani (Via phone)
Schyler Hagen

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; Stephanie Keuhey, Principal HES, Mike
Domagala, Principal SES

OTHERS PRESENT: Christy Romero Grant, Elizabeth Vessels, Candice Birchum, Teresa Reedy,
Eddie Stidham

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

ACTION ITEMS:

1. MAP and SBAC testing data presentations from the school administrators. (InformationfDiscussion)

Principal Domagala explained the SBAC and MAP testing data for Schurz Elementary School and
answered questions from the Bead and public. Discussion Only

2. Discussion on iNVest 2017. (Information/Discussion)

The Board Clerk Sheryl Samson asked to place this on the agenda so they could review the
information and discuss additional ﬁmdiug (via taxes.) MI. Neville commented that MC. is a1ready
at the cap so that is not an option for our district. Discussion Only

3. Update on the MCHS Career Fair. (Discussionﬂnformaﬁon)

On behalf of Ms. Huntley, GEAR UP/SPIF Coordinator, Mr. Hackford invited the Board to attend
and set up a booth at the upcoming MCSD J ob Fair. Discussion Only.

4. Discussion on the list of vehicles to be deemed obsolete and sold at auction. (Discussiom'For
Possible Action)

Eddie Stidham, Transportation Director, went over the list of vehicles with the Board. Sheryl
Samson made the motion to approve deeming the list of vehicles to be sold at the State auction as
obsolete. Schyler Hagen seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes,
Tyler Viani — Yes, Schyler Hagen —— Yes. Motion passed

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, March 16, 2017

Review the revised J ob Description for Bus Driver. (Discussion! For Possible Action)

Review the revised J 0b Description for Custodian. (Discussionﬂi‘or Possible Action)

Review the revised Job Description for Kitchen Aide. (Discussioanor Possible Action)

Review the revised J 0b Description for J oh Description for Cook. (Discussioan or Possible Action)

?°.\‘.°‘EJ'

Items 5, 6, 7, and 8 were combined for possible action. Sheryl Samson made the motion to accept a
revision to the J 0b Descriptions for Bus Driver, Custodian, Kitchen Aide, and Cook. Schyler Hagen
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes,
Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed

Sheryl Samson made the motion to revise the experience and training section on the job description
for Bus Driver, Custodian, Kitchen Aide, and Cook to: High School Diploma or equivalent (if none at
time of hire ~ Must sign an agreement that states they will enroll in our adult Ed program within 6
months of the date of hire, and complete the program within 1 year of date of hire.) Schyler Hagen
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville —— Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Tyler Viani —- Yes,
Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed -

9. 2016 Administrative Negotiated Agreement and Salary Scale. (Discussion for Possible Action)
Sheryl Samson made the motion to accept the 2016 Administrative negotiated Agreement and Salary

Scale as presented. Tyler Viani seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson —
Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion passed

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: February 16, 2017
2. Payroll Vouchers: 1097, 1098
3. Payroll Checks: 82623 - 82648
4. Warrants: 17202 - 17309

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve consent items 1 — 4. Schyler Hagen seconded the
motion. Vote: Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Schyler
Hagen — Yes. Motion passed

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1. Correspondence & Announcements
None
2. Board Member Reports:
Sheryl Samson talked about how busy she has been with the NASB Director meetings and the
legislative sessions they have been involved in.
Keith Neville informed the Board he is reapplying for the NIAA Board of Directors.

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, March 16, 2017
3. Superintendent’s Report: ‘
Mr. Hackford stated that his report was included in the backup and asked if the Board had any
questions.
4. Administrator Reports:
Mr. Domagala stated his report was presented in the backup packets and asked the Board if they had
any questions.
5. Maintenance Report:
Mr. Gallegos was unable to attend but his report was included in the backup.
6. Person or Group Recognition:
Stephanie Keuhey thanked Maintenance Department for taking care of a Leak in her ofﬁce and the
Grant Manager Shelly Lovitt for her hard work.

GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

It is the School Board’s intention to listen and be responsive to the general publiu's concerns. Comments from Lhc public regarding topics nut an the agenda are
invited at this time. You may request to Speak by raising your hand during the General Public cammcnt period or by completing a Request to Address the MCSD
Board form prior to the General Public Comment period. The Board will answer questions or discuss II] [he best of their ability items that are introduced. I'lowcver.
by law. the Board cannot lake any action. reach a consensus or hear personal attacks at this time. Those who submit the form will normally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum of} minulcs. The President may ullnw additional time to a given speaker as time allows and in hisiher sale discreziun.

Teresa Reedy spoke to the Board and Superintendent about a music program at SES. She said she would like to see
music being made available to the students in Schurz now that the District has hired a Music Teacher.

ADJOURNMENT:

Respectfully submitted;

 

