MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, March 2, 2017

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on March 2, 2017 beginning 5:30 p.m. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
' called to order at 5:30 p.m. by the Board President, Keith Neville.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:
Sheryl Samson
Tyler Viani
Schyler Hagen

ADDHNISTRATORS: Walt Hackford; Superintendent; Stephanie Keuhey, Principal HES; Mike
’ Domagala, Principal SES; Jeff Wales, Principal HJPUMCHS

OTHERS PRESENT: Joe Birch, Spring Blazewick, Teri Farley, Tyler Nicholls, Tricia Schumann,
Ann Kee, Marty Waggoner, Arlo Funk, Sarah Dillard, Anne Welch

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited

Person or Group Recognition (Moved up from correspondence & Announcements - Discussion Only)
Stephanie Keuhey introduced her new staff members: Tyler Nichols, who is currently teaching 3’“, 4'“, and

5th grade Intervention, and Ann Welch, Pre-K Teacher. Mrs. Keuhey also thanked her hiring committee,
Ann Kee, Tricia Schumann, Holly Qualls, and J oe Burch.

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: February 2, 2017
2. Payroll Vouchers: 1088, 1091, 1092
3. Payroll Checks: 82584 - 82622
4. Warrants: 17156 - 17201

Tyler Viani made the motion to approve consent items 1—4 as written, Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote;
Keith Neville — Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Schyler Hagen — Yes. Motion Passed

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Discussion on the Resolution Authorizing a Medium-Term Obligation Installment Purchase Agreement for the
purchase of two (2) 2018 Thomas Saf—T-Liner C2 72 passenger school buses with handicap lift.

(Discussion/F or Possible Action)

MI. Hackford informed the Board of the Nevada Department ot‘Taxation requirern ent of a super maj ority of 66%
which would require a unanimous vote to pass the resolution. Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve
Discussion on the Resolution Authorizing a Medium-Term Obligation Installment Purchase Agreement for the
purchase oftwo (2) 2018 Thomas Saf-T-Litter C2 ?2 passenger school buses with handicap lift. Schyler Hagen

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES

Thursday, March 2, 2017
seconded the motion. Vote; Keith Neville — Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Schyler Hagen —

Yes. Motion Passed
2. Annual Audit Review Letter from the Nevada Department of Taxation. (Information/Discussion)

The Superintendent explained the Annual Audit Review Letter received by Sandra Weissman, Finance Manager
was included on the agenda for information. The letter stated the Audit Review was complete and NO Violations
of statues and/or regulations were noted. Discussion Only.

3. Approval of the revised Job Description for Bus Driver. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

After some discussion on the lack of applicants, Mr. Hackford made the recommendation to remove the
requirement ofa high school diploma or equivalent from the Bus Driverjoh description. Sheryl Samson made the
motion to make the elimination of the high school diploma on the 9 month Bus Driverjob description. Schyler
Hagen seconded the motion. Vote; Keith Neville — Yes, Tyler Viani -— Yes. Sheryl Samson — Yes, Sehyler
Hagen — Yes. Motion Passed

4. Approval of the revised J ob Description for Custodian. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

The Superintendent made the same recommendatiou to eliminate the high school diploma or equivalent on the
Custodian job description. Tyler Viani made the motion to approve the revised Custodian job description. Schyler
Hagen seconded the motion. Vote; Keith Neville — Yes, Tyler Viani — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes, Schyler
Hagen — Yes. Motion Passed

5. Approval of the revised Job Description for Cook. Discussion [F or Possible Action)

The Board discussed elimination of the high school diploma or equivalent-for the Cook position. Sheryl Samson
' expressed her concern due to the measuring and reporting the Cook is required to complete, she felt this position

should have a diploma or equivalent. Tyler made the motion to approve the revised job description for Cook.

Keith Neville seconded the motion. Vote; Keith Neville — Yes, Tyler Viani —- Yes, Sheryl Samsou — No,

Schyler Hagen — No. Motion Not Passed.
6. Approval of the revised Job Description for Kitchen Aide. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

The Board discussed the eliminating the high school diploma or equivalent for the Kitchen Aide position. A
suggestion was made to require all applicants without a diploma enroll in the Adult Education program and
complete the high school proﬁciency exam within a speciﬁed amount of time. This item was tabled to be brought
back on the next agenda. Discussion Only

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1. Correspondence & Announcements
None
2. Board Member Reports

Sheryl Samson gave a brief report on the trip she c-haperoned with the SPEED students. She also stated that the
National School Board has been very active on the legal side, but what she wanted to make sure is that our
Board put the 2016 iNVest report on the next agenda for discussion. Keith Neville suggested the Board
schedule another workshop to work on goals and the Superintendent’s evaluation tool.

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, March 2, 2017

GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

It is the School Boml‘s intention to listen and bi: responsive to the general public's uenL-ems. Comments from the puinc regarding topics not on the agenda are
invited at this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comment period or by cnmpleting a Request to Address the MCSD
Board form prior m the General Public Comment period. The Board will answer questions or discuss to the best of their ability items [hut tin: intreduccd. l-lowever.
by law, the Board cannot take any action. reach a consensus or hear personal attacks at this time. Those who submit the form will normally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum of 3 minutes. The President may allow additional time to a given speaker as time allows and in hisﬂier Sole discretion,

Tricia Schumann announced that Literacy Night at HES will be held On Tuesday, March 7"” at 6:00 pm, and on the 9m,
Mrs. Schumann, Mrs. Gemelke, and Mr. Burch, and Mr. Nicholls will be going to the Care and Share at lunch to Sing.
Mr. Domagala Thanked Sehyler Hagen for coming to $135 and setting up Veggies for Kids-at 8138. He also thanked
Sheryl Samson for attending Literacy Night at 5138 on March lst as he brieﬂy spoke about the turn out and some of the
activities that took place.

ADJOURNMENT: 6:42 P.M.

      

Respectfully submitted; _ /"'(." -:

'Iir’ {'1 - /

"l Sheryl Saﬁison; ”Clerk

