MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, April 12, 2017

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on April 12, 2017 beginning 5:30 p.m. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5:30 p.m. by the Board President, Keith Neville.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:
Sheryl Samson
Tyler Viani
Schyler Hagen

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; Stephanie Keuhey, Principal HES; Michael
Domagala, Principal SES; J eff Wales, Principal JHS/MCHS

OTHERS PRESENT: Hope Blinco, Shelley Tweedy, Ann Kee, Anna Gavin, Tom Gallegos, Arlo
Funk, Tricia Schumann, Shelly Lovitt, Pam W 6115, Sandie Weissman, Sarah
Dillard, Tyler Nicholls, Janell Carlos, Ryan Henry, Sean Rowe, Mary J o
Gemelke

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Approval of the 2017 — 2018 Tentative Budget for submission to the Nevada Department of Taxation by April
1511‘. (Discussioan or Possible Action)

Sandy Weissman talked to the heard about the budget Iimeline. Hope BL'mco asked if all positions were funded
in the tentative budget. Schyler Hagen made the motion to approve the 2017 — 2018 Tentative Budget for
submission to the Nevada Department of Taxation by April 15. Tyler Viani seconded the motion. Vote:
Keith Neville—Ya, Sheryl Samson-Yes, Tyler Viani-Yes, Schyler Hagen-Yes. Motion passes 4-0—0

2. MAP and SBAC presentations from the JHS/MCHS Principal. (Discussionﬂnformation)

Principal Wales gave the Board a PowerPoint presentation with all of the MAP and SBAC presentation for the
Jr. High and High School Students. He answered questions from the Board. Discussion Only

3. Discussion and possible action on a resolution designated as the “20 l 7 School Improvement Bond
Resolution"; declaring the necessity of incurring a bonded indebtedness on behalf of the Mineral county
School District for the purpose of improving and etjuipping school facilities; authorizing the issuance of the
Mineral County School District, Nevada, General Obligation (Limited Tax) School Improvement Bonds (PSF
Guaranteed), Series 2017, in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $2,500,000; providing the terms,
conditions. and form of the bonds: ratifying action previously taken relating thereto; and providing. the
effective date. (Disc 113510an or Possible Action)

Ryan Henry from Sherman and Howard went over the Bond process and timeline with the Board. Marty
Johnson. INA Consulting (via telephone), gave the Board a brief on the ﬁnance details. Sheryl Samson made
the motion to approve a resolution designated as the “2017 School Improvement Bond Resolution”; declaring

1

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES

Thursday, April 12, 2017
the necessity of incurring a bonded indebtedness on behalf of the Mineral county School District for the
purpose of improving and equipping school facilities; authorizing the issuance of the Mineral County School
District, Nevada, General Obligation (Limited Tax) School Improvement Bonds (PSF Guaranteed), Series
2017, in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $2,500,000; providing the terms, conditions, and form
of the bonds; ratifying action previously taken relating thereto; and providing the effective date. Tyler Viani
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes, Tyler Viani—Yes, Schyler Hagen-Yes.
Motion passes 4-0-0

4. Discussion on a review of the 4 Day School Week. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

The Board asked the administrators how they thought the 4 day school week has been going. They asked
about athletic schedules and things that were promised. Discussion Only

5. Approval of the 2017 - 2018 HES, SES, and JHS/MCHS School Calendars. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the 2017 - 2018 5 day SES, 4 day HES and 4 day JH/MCHS
School Calendars as submitted. Tyler Viani seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Sheryl Samson-

Yes, Tyler Viani-Yes, Schyler Hagen-Yes. Motion passes 4-0-0

6. Out of State travel request from Melissa Cardenas to attend the HOSA National Conference in Lake Buena
Vista, Florida, June 19-24, 2017. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

This item was pulled from the agenda.

7. Approval to Contract with Kathy Grifﬁn, Retired LCSD Grant Coordinator to ﬁll in until the Grant Manager
position is ﬁlled. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

Superintendent Hackford said since the position has been ﬁlled, the Contract needs to be revised and brought
back on a future agenda. The Grant Manager still needs help to get caught up. This item was tabled.

8. Proposal from J Chisum Concrete for Concrete Work at Schurz Elementary School. (Discussion/Possible
Action)

Sheryl Samson made the motion to accept the concrete work by J Chisum at Schurz Elementary. Tyler Viani
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes, Tyler Viani-Yes, Schyler Hagen—Yes.
Motion passes 4-0-0

9. Discuss hiring a Temporary Part-Time'Maintenance Worker I to assist the Maintenance Department during the
summer. (Discussion/F or Possible Action)

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the Temporary Part-Time Maintenance Worker I for the dates
stated. Schyler Hagen seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes, Tyler Viani-
Yes, Schyler Hagen-Yes. Motion passes 4-0-0

10. Review of the revised Maintenance Job Description. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

Tyler Viani made the motion to approve the revised Maintenance Job Description as presented. Sheryl Samson
Seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes, Tyler Viani-Yes, Schyler Hagen-Yes.
Motion passes 4-0-0

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES

Thursday, April 12, 2017
11. Review of the IC/Instructional Coach J ob Description and Salary. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

After some discussion this item was tabled. To be revised and brought back a future agenda.
12. Review New Administrative Regulation on Testing Security. (Information/Discussion)

Mr. Hackford explained the changes to the AR were to make the District compliant and up to date. Discussion
Only.

13. First reading of the Board Policy JECBD Homeless Students (McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act),
and Administrative Regulation. (Informationlﬂiscussion)

The Superintendent pointed out the changes to the Administrative Regulation. Discussion Only

14. Discussion to set the process, and approve the evaluation form for the Superintendent’s annual evaluation.
(Discussion/Possible Action)

The Board discussed the date of the Superintendent’s evaluation. They reviewed the evaluation form and
talked about process. Tyler Viani made the motion to use the process of each member to complete the form
and turning it into the Board Secretary by April 20, approval of the form provided by Mr. Hackford, and
schedule a special meeting by May 1 in accordance with the Superintendent’s Contract. Sheryl Samson
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes, Tyler Viani-Yes, Schyler Hagen-Yes.
Motion passes 4-0-0

15. Discussion ofBoard Policies BBA, CCC, GBB9, and GBBlO. (Informaﬁonmiscussion)

President Neville explained he asked to have these policies on the agenda for the Board to review. He
suggested each member start going through the policies and submit them for revision. Discussion Only

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: March 2, 2017 Workshop
2. Minutes: March 2, 2017 Regular Meeting
3. Payroll Vouchers: 1103, 1104
4. Payroll Checks: 82649 - 82688
5. Warrants: 17309 - 17390

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve consent items 1-5 as read. Tyler Viani seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes. Sheryl Samson—Yes, Tyler Viani—Yes, Schyler Hagen-Yes. Motion
passes 4-0-0 ’

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1. Correspondence & Announcements
2. Board Member Reports
3. Person or Group Recognition

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, April 12, 2017

GENERAL PUBLIC CONﬂVIENT:

[t is the Selma] Board‘s intention lb Iistcn and be rcspensive to the general public‘s concerns. Cummenue ﬁom me public regarding Iopics nut en the agenda are
invited at this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public uemment period or by completing a Request to Address 1h: MCSD
Beard form prior to the General Public Comment period. The Board will answer qumiens or discuss to the best oftheir ability items that are intrndueed. However,
by law. the Board cannot take any action. reach a consensus or hear persunnl attacks at this time. Those who submit the ferm'will normally be called nrl ﬁrst.
Speaking time witl be limited to a maximum of} minutes. The President may allow additional time to :1 given speaker us time allows and in hisfher sole discretion.

ADJOURNTVIENT: 7:20 PM

Respectfully submitted; 3? _’.-‘ F . _ ‘
VI {£635 {I 7?? ngﬁéwyb/
Sheryl Saéhlson, Clerk

       

