MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Wednesday, May 18, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meetin g on May 18, 2016 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

' CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
- called to order at 5:30 pm. by the Board President, Keith Neville.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:
Barbara Lancaster
Donna Glazier
Mark Nixon
Sheryl Samson

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; Stephanie Keuhey, HES Principal; Mike
Domagala, HJI-I/MCHS Principal

OTHERS PRESENT: Christine Mayes, Joe Burch, Candice Birchum, Ann Kee, Debbie Tarleton,
Arlo Funk, J anis Horn, Patricia Stoddard, Christy Grant

Secretary Spring Blazewiek stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
A Moment of Silence was observed and then the Pledge of Allegiance was recited

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Discussion for mssihle action to approve request for high school senior to participate in the graduation
ceremonies on May 27, 2016.

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to allow the high school senior to participate in the graduation ceremonies
on May 2?, 20] 6. Mark Nixon seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville - Ya, Barbara Lancaster - Yes,
Mark Nixon Yes, Donna Glazier - Yes, Sheryl Samson - Yen. Motion Passed 5—0-0

2. Discussion for mihle action on closing the 7‘“ & 8‘“ grades at Schurz Elementary School beginning the
2016-17 school year

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to close the 7'” 8L 8* grades in the best interest of the students. Donna
Glazier seconded the motion- Vote: Keith Neville — No, Barbara Lancaster-Yes, Mark Nixon-No, Donna
Glazier-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. 3—2—0 Motion passed

3. Discussion for gossible action to approve hiring of teacher at Schulz Elementary School beginning the
2016-17 school year.

This item was pulled from the agenda by President Neville.

4. Discussion for wible action to approve the Final 2016-17 Budget.

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to approve the Final 2016-4 7 Budget. Sheryl Samson seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yea, Barbara Lancaster ~ Yes, Mark Nixon Yeti, Donna Glazier — Yes,
Sheryl Samson - Ya. Motion Passed 5—0—0

1

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Wednesday, May 18, 2016

5. Discussion for wible action to approve the Bond Question to be placed on the November ballot.

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the Bond Question as submitted. Donna Glazier seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville - Yes, Barbara Lancaster - Yes, Mark Nixon Yes, Donna Giazier - Yes,

Sheryl Samson - Yes. Motion Passed 5—0—0

6. Discussion for nossible action to approve the transfers out of the General Fund into SpEd,
Unem ployment, Retirement Incentive, Capital Improvements and Cafeteria.

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the transfers. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Keith
Neville - Yes, Barbara Lancaster - Yes, Mark Nixon Yes, Donna Glazier - Yes, Sheryl Samson - Yes.
Motion Passed 5—0—0

7. Discussion only on the 4 Day School Work Week.
This item was for discussion only.

8. Discussion for possible action to approve CTE’s new Early Childhood Education Program for the High
School.

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve a CTE Early Childhood Education Program for the High School.
Barbara Lancaster seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville - Yes, Barbara Lancaster - Yes, Mark Nixon
Yes, Donna Glazier - Yes, Sheryl Samson - Yes. Motion Passed 5-0-0

9. Discussion for gossible action to approve the adoption of the Sex Education Curriculum Revision.

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the adoption of the Sex Education Curriculum Revision. Donna
Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville - Yes, Barbara Lancaster - Yes, Mark Nixon Yes, Donna
Glazier - Yes, Sheryl Samson - Yes. Motion Passed 5-0-0

10. Discussion for [J_ossible action to approve the quarterly Class Size Reduction Report for submission to
the State. -

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve the Class Size Reduction Report for Submission to the State.
Barbara Lancaster seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville - Yes, Barbara Lancaster - Yes, Mark Nixon
Yes, Donna Glazier - Yes, Sheryl Samson - Yes. Motion Passed 5-0-0

COWUNICATIONS AND REPORTS: (F OR DISCUSSION ONLY)

1. Correspondence and Announcements
2. Board Member Reports
3. Superintendent’s Report
4. Person or Group Recognition
CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: None Presented
2. Payroll Vouchers: 28-30,]126-1128,1132,1134—1135,1137
3. Payroll Checks: ‘ 81933-82002
4.

Warrants: 15466-15507,15785-15853

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Wednesday, May 18, 2016

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to approve consent items 2-4. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion- Vote:

Keith Neville - Yes, Barbara Lancaster - Yes, Mark Nixon Yes, Donna Glazier — Yes, Sheryl Samson -
Yes. Motion Passed 5—0-0

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to move into closed pursuant to NRS 241.029, and 392.029. Donna
Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville - Yes, Barbara Lancaster - Yes, Mark Nixon Yes,
Donna Glazier - Yes, Sheryl Samson - Yes. Motion Passed 5-0-0

CLOSED SESSION:

1. Discussion for [t_ossible action on student discipline plan pursuant to NRS 241.030, the meeting may be
closed to consider the character, alleged misconduct, professional competence, or physical or mental
health of said student.

Information and discussion only

OPEN SESSION— Action items continued:

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to move back into open session. Donna Glazier seconded the motion.
Vote: Keith Neville - Yes, Barbara Lancaster - Yes, Mark Nixon Yes, Donna Glazier - Yoe, Sheryl
Samson - Yes. Motion Passed 5—0—0

Sheryl Samson made a motion to accept the student discipline plan as presented. Mark Nixon seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville - Yes, Barbara Lancaster - Yes, Mark Nixon Yes, Donna Glazier - Yes,
Sheryl Samson - Yes. Motion Passed 5-0-0

GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

it is the School Board's intention to listen and be responsive to the general puhlic’s concerns. Comments from the public regarding topics nm on the agenda are
invited at this time. You may request In spent: by raising yen: hand during the General Public comment period or by cnmpIetth a Request tn Address the MCSD
Beard fem: print to the Germs] Public Cmnment pm’od. The Board will answer questions or discuss to the heat of their sbil ity items that are introduced. However.
by law, the Board cannot take any action, reach a consensus er hem pentonal attacks at this time. Tlmse who submit the form will normally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum of 3 minutes. The President may allow additional time to a given speaker as time allows and in hisﬂter sole discretion.

ADJOURNMENT: 7:38 pm.

   
   

Respectfully submitted;

  

0”)

Do Glaéier, Clerk

