MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, June 16, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on June 16, 2016 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5:30 pm. by the Board President, Keith Neville.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT: Donna Glazier
Barbara Lancaster
Mark Nixon
Sheryl Samson

ADMJNISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; Stephanie Keuhey, HES Principal; Mike
Domagala, HJH/MCHS Principal

OTHERS PRESENT: Hope Blinoo, Thomas Gallegos, Shelley Tweedy, Woody lsom, Wayne
Carlson, April Anderson, Marilyn Duncan, Christy Romero Grant, Ron Farley,
Patricia Stoddard, Arlo Funk, Pam Wells, Eric Hamrey, Jamel] Carlos

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
A Moment of Silence was observed and then the Pledge of Allegiance was recited

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: April 14, 2016
2. Minutes: April 21, 2016
3. Payroll Vouchers: 1143, 1144, 1146, 1148, 1149
4. Payroll Checks: 82003 - 82074
5. Warrants: 15854 — 16028

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to approve consent items 1-5. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion Vote:
Keith Neville — Yes, Barbara Lancaster — Yes, Mark Nixon — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes. Motion passed.

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Discussion for p_ossible action on acceptance of the renewal proposal from Nevada Public Agency Insurance
Pool (POOL) and approve payment from the ﬁscal year 2016—2017.

Wayne Carlson reviewed the proposal from POOL for the 2016-17 school year. Sheryl Samson made the
motion to accept the proposal as presented and approve payment ﬂow the ﬁscal year 2016-2017. Mark Nixon
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Barbara Lancaster — Yes, Mark Nixon — Yes, Sheryl
Samson — Yes. Motion passed.

2. Discussion for gossible action on the Nevada Home Visiting Program presented by Evelyn Dryer.

Mrs. Dryer gave a PowerPoint presentation to the Board on the Home Visiting program. After some
discussion and public questions the decided to table this item for more information at the next meeting
scheduled for July 21, 2016.

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES

Thursday, June 16, 2016

3. Discussion for mssible action on the request from Curtis Schlepp, Juvenile Probation Ofﬁce to possibly use
the old Administration Building located on 5th and C Street.
Curtis withdrew his request and brought Eric Hamrey with him to explain the reason. Eric talked to the Board '
about Brownsﬁeld ﬁmd'mg to make repairs to the building. After having the building surveyed there are many
repairs that would need to be made to the building before it could be signed over.

4. Discussion on the overview of School Trust Lands in Nevada
Information was provided in the backup on the history of School Trust Lands in Nevada. Discussion only.

5. Discussion for gossihle action for consideration and adoption of resolution in support of NASB’s Initiative to
increase revenues from School Trust Lands in Nevada.

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve adoption of the resolution in support of NASB‘s Initiative to
increase revenues for School Trust Lands in Nevada. Barbara Lancaster seconded the motion. Vote: Keith
Neville -— Yes. Barbara Lancaster — Yes, Mark Nixon — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes. Motion passed.

6. Discussion for [mime action to allow out of State travel for Meshanna Huntley to attend the Annual GEAR
UP West conference in Spokane, Washington, October 16-18, 2016.

Barbara Lancaster made the motion to allow out of State travel for Meshanna Huntley to attend the Annual
GEAR UP West Conference in Spokane, Washington, October 16-18, 2016. Sheryl Samson seconded the
motion. Vole: Keith Neville — Yes, Barbara Lancaster — Yes, Mark Nixon — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes.
Motion passed.

7. Discussion for mible action to allow out of State travel for Walt Hackford to attend the N ational School
Safety Conference in Orlando, Florida, July 25-29, 2016.

Sheryl Samson made the motion to allow out of State travel for Walt Hackford to attend the National School
Safety Conference in Orlando, Florida at no cost of the District. Barbara Lancaster seconded the motion.
Vote: Keith N eville — Yes, Barbara Lancaster — Yes, Mark Nixon — Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes. Motion
passed. -

8. Discussion for possible action to name a Designated Ofﬁcial as a requirement of the School Lunch Program.

Mark Nixon made the motion to name Walt Hackford as the Designated Ofﬁcial of the School Lunch

Program. Barbara Lancaster seconded the Motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Barbara Lancaster — Yes,
Mark Nixon — Ya, Sheryl Samson «- Yes. Motion passed.

9. Discussion for Qossible action on the F Y. 20l5-2016 Amended Budget.

Patricia Stoddard reviewed the 2016-17 Amended Budget with the Board. Barbara Lancaster made the motion
to approve the F Y 2016-1'}r Amended Budget. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville ~—
Yw, Barbara Lancaster — Yes, Mark Nixon —- Yes, Sheryl Samson — Yes. Motion passed.

10. Discussion for Quisible action on the ﬁrst readin g of new Board Policy for English Language Learners.

The Board discussed the English Language Leaners new policy. First reading on Iy, no action required. Bring
back. for seconded reading on the J uly 21, 2016.

11. Discussion for gossible action on revisions to Board Policy: GBBMl Requirements for Coaches and Extra
Curricular Activities Advisers. .

2

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, June 16, 2016

The Board discussed the current policy. The revised policy was not available for review. Tabled until the next
meeting July 21, 2016.

12. Discussion for Qossible action on the TAP/STP Set-aside Call for Projects.
Discussion only, no action.

13. Discussion for gossible action on raising the Substitute Teacher pay because of the longer workday due to the
4 day week schedule.

Walt discussed the Substitute Teacher pay with the Board. Mr. Hackford will work with the Finance Manager
and Payroll Clerk on an increase, updgtte the policy and Administrative Regulation and bring back to the Board
at the next meeting July 21, 2016. Discussion only, No Action taken.

14. Discussion on any new information on the implementation of the 4 day school week.
Discussion only

15. Discussion on the MAP testing data presented by the Administrators.
The administrators presented the MAP testing data to the Board. Discussion only.

16. Discussion for gossible action on the Superintendent’s completed Self Evaluation for review by the Board.
Mark Nixon made the motion that the Superintendent is adequately meeting the goals of this board and we ﬁnd

this evaluation satisfactory. Barbara Lancaster seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville — Yes, Barbara
Lancaster — Yes, Mark Nixon - Yea, Sheryl Samson — Yon. Motion passed.

COMCMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1. Correspondence & Announcements
2. Board Member Reports
Curriculum Alignment Meeting
3. Superintendent’s Report
4. Maintenance Report
5 Person or Group Recognition

Ron Farley — Presented by Tom Gallegos, Maintenance
April Anderson, Custodian
Marilyn Duncan, Custodian

GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

11 is the School Board‘s intention to listen and he tesponsive to the general public’s eoneerns. Comments ﬁrm the public regarding topics not on the agenda are
invited at this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the Gwen‘s! Public comment period or by completing a Request to Address the MCSD
Board form prior to the General Public Comment petiod. The Board will answer questions or dismss to the best of their ability items that are introduced. However,
by law. the Board cannot take any action. reach a consensus or hear pmonal attacks at this time. Those who submit the form will normally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum 01'3 minutes. The Presiéenl may allow additional lime to a given speaker as time allows and in higher sole discretion.

ADJOURNMENT: 8:47 pm.

  
   

Respectfully submitted;

Glazier, Clerk

