MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, August 18, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on August 18, 2016 beginning 5 :30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5:30 pm. by the Board Member Mark Nixon.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Donna Glazier MEMBERS ABSENT: Keith Neville
Mark Nixon

Sheryl Samson

ADMINISTRATORS: Walter Hackford, Superintendent; J eff Wales, Principal MCl-{SIHJI-l;

Stephanie Keuhey, Principal HES

OTHERS PRESENT: Patricia Stoddard, Tom Gallegos, Patricia Stoddard, Shelly Lovitt, Arlo Funk,

Schyler Hagen, Cherrie George, Mary Jo Gemelke, Will Genlelke, Sarah
Lamkin, Tyler Vianni, Joe Burch, Ann Kee, Hope Blinco, Christy Romero
Grant, Tricia Schumann

Secretary Spring Blazewiek stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
A Moment of Silence was observed and then the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: August 4, 2016
2 Minutes: June 16, 2016
3. Minutes: May 18, 2016
4. Payroll Vouchers: 1009, 1010, 1176, 1177
5 Payroll Checks: 82165-821790
6 A/P Warrants: 16267- 16351

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve consent items 1-6. Sheryl SamSon Seconded the motion.
Vote: Mark Nixon-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 3-0-0

ACTION ITEMS:

1.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

Variance Request from Sarah Lamkin for her children (two) to attend school in Lyon County School District
for the 2016-2017 school year. (For Possible Action)

After a brief discussion Mrs. Lamkin stated her reason for the request. Sheryl Samson made the motion to
deny the variance request. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Mark Nixon-Yes, Donna Glazier-
Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 3-0-0

Request From Cherrie George, Director of the MC. Senior Services Program, to look into using the 6‘h Street
School building as a Senior Center. (Discussioﬂor Possible Action)

Cherrie George discussed the possible use of the 6th street school building for a senior center. She explained
her plans to apply for grant funding to do the extensive repairs that are needed. The Board discussed possibly

1

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES

Thursday, August 18, 2016
conveying the property to the County at a later date. Sheryl Samson made the motion to move ahead with the
possibility of using the building as a senior center so Cherrie George can move toward and look at the
possible conveyance of the land to the County, and schedule ajoint meeting with all of the stakeholders.

Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Mark Nixon—Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Sheryl Samson-
Yes. Motion passed 3-0-0

Progress of adding MCSD “old” Admin Building and Mina School to the Brownﬁeld Project list.
(lnformationfDiscussion)

The Board discussed all of the phases of the Brownsﬁeld project with Grant Manger Shelly Lovitt. Discussion
Only.

Resignation of Patricia Stoddard, Finance Manager. (Discussion/F or Possible Action)

Superintendent Hackford informed the Board of Mrs. Stoddard’s resignation. Board Member Samson
presented Patricia with a gift from the Board. Donna Glazier made the motion to accept the resignation of

Patricia Stoddard, Finance Manager. Sheryl SamSOn seconded the motion. Vote: Mark Nixon-Yes, Donna
Glazier—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 3—0—0

Possible contract with Arrighi Blake & Associates, LLC, for ﬁnancial services while the District is going
through the process of hiring and training a ﬁnance manager. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

Mr. Hackferd explained the need to contract with an accounting ﬁrm while the District was going through the
process of hiring a ﬁnance manager. Donna Glazier made the motion to Contract with Arrighi Blake &

Associates, LLC while we go through the hiring process. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Mark
Nixen-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 3-0-0

Advertisement for vacant outside seat on the Board of School Trustees. (InfomationfDiscussion)
The Board was presented with the advertisement for the vacant outside seat for information purposes only.

Ratiﬁed Negotiation Agreement between Mineral County School District and the Mineral County Classiﬁed
Employees for the 2016-2017 School Year. (Discussion/For Possible Action)

Superintendent Hackford brieﬂy went over a few of the changes in the contract. Donna Glazier made the
motion to accept the ratiﬁed Negotiated Agreement between Mineral County School District and the Mineral
County Classiﬁed Employees for the 2016-2017 School Year. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote:

Mark Nixou-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 3-0-0

Possible hire of a Part—Time Art Teacher 01' Paraprofessional to manage online Odyssey Humanities Course at
HJHIMCHS. (Discussioanor Possible Action)

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the hiring a Part-Time Art Teacher or Paraprofessional to manage
online Odyssey Humanities Course at HHJI’MCHS. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Mark

Nixon~Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 3-0-0
Discussion on the maintenance of the SES Generator and the District Ofﬁce Boiler. (InfomationfDiseussion)

Mr. Hackford informed the board of the issues the District is facing with the SES Generator and District Ofﬁce
Boiler. Tom Gallegos was present to give the Board the cost of the repairs which will be approximately

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, August 18, 2016

$13,679.00 to repair the boiler, and to repair/replace the generator and fuel system at SES ranging in price
from $11,034 - $11,943 to repair and $42,354 to replace. Discussion Only.

Review of revised Administrative Regulation GDA— Substitute Pay. (Information/Discussion)

Mr. l-Iaekford explained the revision to Administrative Regulation - GDA Substitute Pay needed revision due
to the 4 clay school week, Substitute Teachers will be working a longer day when ﬁlling in at the schools on
the 4 day schedule. Discussion and Information only.

Second reading of revised Board Policy JED — Mineral County School District Attendance. (Discussion/For
Possible Action)

Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve revised Board Policy JED — Mineral County School District
Attendance. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Mark Nixon-Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Sheryl
Samson-Yes. Motion passed 3-0-0

First reading and review of revised Board Policy GBBMl — Requirements for Coaches and ExtIa-Curricular
Activities Advisors. (lnformationlDiscussion)

Superintendent Haekford discussed the revisions with the Board and members of the public. Hepe Blince
expressed her concern on the due date coaches must submit the letter of interest to continue in their current
position in relation to when teachers must return their letters of intent. Mr. Haekferd stated that he would
change the date from May 10 to May 31 and bring the policy back to the Board for the second reading next
meeting. Discussion Only.

Review and discussion on the following Job Descriptions: (Discussion/For Possible Action)
a. Transportation Director
. Bus Driver

b
0. Teacher
(1 Kitchen Aide

e. Cook

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve the job descriptions for Transportation Director, Bus Driver,
Teacher, Kitchen Aide, and Cook as submitted. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion. Vote: Mark Nixon-

Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 3-0-0

Fourth Quarter School District Report of Plan to Comply with NRS 388.700-3 88.725 Reduction of Pupil—
Teacher Ratio in Certain Classes (Class Size Reduction) FY 2016 Part B1. (InformationfDiscussioanor
Possible Action)

Mr. Hackford explained that the Class Size Reduction Report is submitted to the Nevada Department of
Education quarterly. Schyler Hagen pointed out several typos in the document. Tricia Schumann stated that
we are in violation of the report due to the class sizes at Hawthorne Elementary. Sheryl Samson made the
motion to approve the Fourth Quarter School District Report ofPlan to Cemply with NRS 388.700-388.725
with the edits for Submission. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Mark Nixon-Yes, Donna

Glazier~Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 3~0~0
Discuss on returning to two Board meetings per month. (Discussion/F or Possible Action)

Donna Glazier asked for this item to be placed on the agenda due to the length of the monthly Board Meeting.
After a brief discussion Sheryl Samson made the motion to return to scheduling two (2) meetings per month.

3

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, August 18, 2016
Donna Glazier seconded the motion Vote: Mark Nixon-Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes.
Motion passed 3-0-0

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

99%.“!9?

Correspondence & Announcements — None

Board Member Reports - None

Superintendent’s Report .— None, Mr. Hackford said he would like to submit one report per month
Transportation Report - None

Budget and Grants Report — Patricia Stoddard provided her report in the backup. There were no questions.
Person or Group Recognition — Tom Gallegos recognized the maintenance and custodial staff for all of their
hard work over the summer.

GENERAL PUBLIC C ONIMENT:

II is the Sehoe! Board‘s intention to listen and be responsive to the general public‘s concerns. Comments from the public regarding topics not on the agenda are
invited at this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comment period or by completing a Request to Address the MCSD
Board form prior 10 the Cicncml Public Comment period. The Board will answer questions or discuss to the best of their ability items that are introduced. However.
by law. the Board cannot take any action. reach a consensus or hear personal attacks at this time. Those who submit the than will nunnally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum at 3 minutes. The Presidenl may allow additional time 10 a given speaker as time allows and in hisiher sole discretion.

Mary J o Gemelke announced the Open House at Hamhorne Elementary on Wednesday August 3 lst from 6-7 pm.

ADJOURNMENT: 7:02 pm.

Respectfully submitted;

  

