MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, September 15 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on September 15 , 2016 beginning 5:30 p.m., in
the Main Ofﬁce Building at Schurz Elementary School in Schurz, Nevada.

The Meeting was not called to order on time because Donna Glazier called to say she was running late but
was on her way. The Board could not start the meeting without Donna who was needed to make up a
quorum due to the absence of Mark Nixon and the vacant seat.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 6:00 pm. by the Board President Keith Neviile‘

MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT: Mark Nixon
Donna Glazier
Sheryl Samson
ADhﬂNISTRATORS: Walter Hackford, Superintendent; Mike Domagala, Principal SES
OTHERS PRESENT: Daniel Blazewick, Tom Gallegos, Crystal Brown, J ohn Lockwood

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: September 8, 2016
2. Payroll Vouchers: 1020, 1021
3. Payroll Checks: 82234-82259
4. Warrants: 16431-16486

Sheryl Samson then made the motion' to approve consent items 1 — 4 as read. Donna Glazier seconded the
motion. Vote: President Keith Neville - Yes, Clerk Donna Glazier - Yes, Member Sheryl Samson -Yes.
3-0-0 Motion Passed

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Approval of the ﬁnal questions for the Board Member interviews. (Discussion/Possible Action)

A list of interview questions that were developed and approved at a meeting prior to the last vacancy were
given to the Board prior to the meeting to review. A'Closed session was put on the agenda so the Board could
move into closed session to discuss and develop new interview questions if they choose to which they did not.
Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve the list of interview questions as presented. Donna Glazier
seconded the motion. Vote: President Keith Neville — Yes, Clerk Donna Glazier — Yes, Member Sheryl
Samson -Yes. 3-0-0 Motion Passed

2. Board Vacancy Interviews - The Board will interview the candidates for the vacant outside seat on the
Board of Trustees by asking each applicant a series of questions. (Discussion)

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES

Thursday, September 15 2016
Each of the candidates were interviewed separately using the same questions. Sheryl Samson read the

questions to them beginning with Crystal Brown who was then followed by J ohn Lockwood. Discussion
Only.

3. Discussion on ﬁlling the vacant outside seat on the Board of Trustees which may include appointing and
swearing in the chosen qualiﬁed applicant as a Board Member. (Discussioanor Possible Action)

Each member of the Board was given a ballot to cast their vote for the candidate of their choice. Secretary
Spring Blazewick read the ballots out loud. Keith Neville — John Lockwood, Sheryl Samson — Crystal Brown,
Donna Glazier v John Lockwood. Since the vote was split 2-1 in favor of Mr. Lockwood, Secretary
Blazewick informed the Board they needed a unanimous vote to appoint a candidate due to only 3 members
being present and they could re-vote if they choose to. President Neville called for a recess to conﬁrm with
District Attorney Rowe. Mr. Rowe did conﬁrm a majority vote would need to be 3 out OH to pass. Mr.
Neville then tabled the item to the next meeting so that a full board could be present.

4. Resolution Authorizing a Medium Term Obligation Installment Purchase Agreement for the purchase
of two (2) 2018, 72 Passenger school buses to be paid for over the next 5 years. (Discussion/F or Possible
Action) ‘

After the Resolution was written and advertised, Ed Stidham had the quote revised to include wheelchair lifts
on both buses which changed the cost of the agreement. The Resolution will need to be revised and re—
advertised. This item was tabled.

5. Nutrition Agreement between Mineral County School District and Inter—Triba! Council of Nevada Head
Start Program School Year 2016-2017. (Discussioanor Possible Action)

Mr. Hackford explained the annual renewal of the Nutrition Agreement which has been an ongoing agreement
between MCSD and the ITCN Head Start Program for many years. MCSD agrees to provide meals to the
Head Start staff and students at SES and the ITCN Head Start Program reimburses the District for those meals.
Donna Glazier made the motion to approve the Nutrition Agreement between Mineral County School District
and Inter-Tribal Council of Nevada Head Start Program School Year 20l6-201?. Sheryl Samson seconded the
motion. Vote: President Keith Neville — Yes, Clerk Donna Glazier — Yes, Member Sheryl Samson -Yes.
3-0-0 Motion Passed

6. Out of State Travel Request from J ohn Gavin to attend the Nation 3] Association for the Education 01"
Homeless Children and Youth (NAEHCY) Conference in Orlando. Florida, October 29 — November 1,
2016. (Discussion for Possible Action)

Superintendent Hackford told the Board that as a requirement ofTitle X - McKinny-Vento Homeless Act,
attendance of this. conference is mandatow for Mr. Gavin who is District Liaison. Sheryl Samson made the
motion to approve the request from John Gavin to attend the National Association for the Education of
Homeless Children and Youth (NAEHCY) Conference in Orlando, Flurida1 October 29 — November 1, 2016.
Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: President Keith Neville '— Yes, Clerk Donna Glazier — Yes,
Member Sheryl Samson —Yes. 3-0-0 Motion Passed

COWCATION AND REPORTS:

1. Correspondence & Announcements
None

2. Board Member Reports
None

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, September 15 2016

3. Maintenance Report
Tom Gallegos was present to answer questions regarding his report. Mrs. Samson made the comment that
they did a lot over the summer. Mr. Gallegos said that his summer hire made it possible for his crew to get
the extra work done. He also made a comment on how the 4 day school week is helping his department
get extra work done on F riday while the staff and students are out.

4. Person or Group Recognition - I
None

GENERAL PUBLIC CONIMENT:

1! is the School Board's intention te listen and be responsive t0 the general pubi'lc's concerns. Cnmmcnts {"mm lhc public regarding topics nut on the agenda are
invited at this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comment period or by completing a Request Io Address the MCSD
Board form prior to the General Public Comment period. The Board will answer questions or discuss to the best of their tlhilil}.r items that are introduced. However,
by law. the Board cannnt take any action, reach n consensus or hear personal attacks at this tlme. Those who submit the form will normally be called on t'trsL
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum of 3 mhmtes. The President may allow addititma] time to a given speaker as time allows and in hisfher sole diseretinn.

ADJOURNMENT: 7:32 pm.

  

Respectfully submitted;

