MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
T hursday, September 8, 2016, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on September 8, 2016 beginning 5:30 p.m. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was
called to order at 5:30 p.m. by the Board President, Keith Neville.
MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:
Donna Glazier
Mark Nixon

Sheryl Samson

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; J eff Wales, Principal Jr. I-IighXMCHS;
Stephanie Keuhey, Principal HES -

OTHERS PRESENT: Scott Springston, Robert Rosenfeld, J oe Birch, Pam Wells, Tyler Viani, Arlo
Funk, Schyler Hagen, Sean Rowe, Hope Blineo, Meshanna Huntley, Candice
Birchum

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
A Moment of Silence was observed and then the Pledge of Allegiance was recited

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: August 18, 2016
2. PayrollVouchers: 1013, 1014, 1180, 1181
3. Payroll Checks: 82180 — 82233
4. A/P Warrants: 16352 - 16430

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve consent items 1—4. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion.
Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 4-0-0

ACTION ITEMS:

1. Receive information from WestEd on their program and working with our District. OnfonnationfDiscussion)

Robert Rosenfeld and Scott Springsten from WestEd informed the Board of the work WestEd and how they
will be working with our District. He gave them an overview of the program and how they will be assisting
our schools in making recommendation for hnprovement. Information and disc ussion only.

2. 2"”1 Reading of revised Policy GBBM] — Requirements for Coaching and Extra—C articular Activity Advisers.
(Discussionf'F or Possible Action)

Mr. Hackford pointed out the change he made after discussion during the ﬁrst reading. He explained that most
of the changes were to make the Policy in line with NIAA requirements. Sheryl Samson made the motion to
adopt the revised Policy GBBMI Requirements for Coaching and Extra-Curricular Activity Advisers. Donna
Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Ma rk Nixon-Yes, Sheryl
Samson—Yes. Motion passed 44M]

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES 8 '
Thursday, September 8, 2016, 2016

3. ‘One-time salary increase fot the Intervention Coordinator as compensation for additional days of contracted
work (from 182 — 200 days). (Discussion! For Possible Action)

Mr. Haekford apologized to the Board for not having any ﬁgures in the backup. He explained that it wasn’t
until she received her ﬁrst paycheck that she was not being given extra compensation at a daily rate for 13

_ days. He told the Board that 6 months ago the district did not have the funds but We do have an additional
$230,000 of BSA funds this year due to approximately 58-60 new students who have enrolled. Mt. Haclcford

‘ made the recommendation to pay Intervention Coord inator for additional days beyond the teacher contracted

‘ 182 days at a daily rate, which'would be approximately $6,500—6,600 over the salary budgeted. Hope Blinco
reminded the Board of thejob description which they approved at 200 days on February l8, 2016, at that
meeting it was also mentioned that the Union had also reviewed the job description and approved it at 200
days because the [C was not in the classroom with students. Pam Wells asked to clarify the exempt status
stating that the Union told her the district was trying to make her exempt ﬁ'om joining the Union. Hope
explained to her that because the position was salary, it is exempt from overtime and had nothing to do with
union membership. Mrs. Well asked that it was put into the minutes for clariﬁcation. Ms. Blinco informed the
Board that she has been approached by union members and felt that this could open up additional issues with
the Unions. After further discussion, this item was tabled to be brought back to the Board at a later date.
Discussion only.

4. Extend the approved Part-Time Paraprofessiorial to a Full Time Paraprofessional position to oversee the online .
Odyssey Humanities Course, which will be split between the .h'. Higthigh School and Hawthorne
Elementary. (Discussiom'For Possible Action.)

This position was approved as a Part-Time Paraprofessional at the August 18‘“ Board meeting. This position
was to be split between the Jr. HighII-[igh School and Hawthorne Elementary School which is the reason this
position needs to be a Full-T'tme position. Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve extending the Part-
Time Paraprofessional to a Full Time Paraprofessional position to oversee the online Odyssey Humanities
Course, split between the Jr- I-Iighfl-ligh School and Hawthorne Elementary. Donna Glazier seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neville—Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion
passed 4-0-0 ‘

5. Recommendation to hire 2 Full-Time Paraprofessionals at HES to assist with growing student population arid
Class Size Reduction requirements. (Discussioanoi-‘possible action)

Walt explained the need to hire Paraprofessionals to help with the larger class sizes due to an unexpected
enrollment of approximately 58 new students. He also stated that hiring the two Paraprofessionals would make
the District compliant with the Class Size Reduction requirements. Sheryl Samson made the motion to
approve hiring 2 Full-Time Paraprofessionals at HES to assist. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote:
Keith Neville-Yes, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark N ixo'n-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 4-0-0

6. Hire a PaIt-Time Paraprofessional for Sch urz Elementary School to be paid for by grant funding.
(Discussiom’ for possible action)

Mr. Hackford stated that this position is for the Read by 3 grant. He said the Grant Manager worked hard to
. get additional funding to hire another Part-Time Paraprofessional at SES. This would be for K—4‘“ grades only
, but will get our younger students up to speed in reading. Donna Glazier made the motion to approve hiring a
Part-Time Paraprofessional for Schurz Elementary School to be paid for by grant Funding. Sheryl Samson
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Ya, Donna Glazier—Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sh eryl Samson—Yes.
{Motion passed 4-0-0 '

2

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL'DISTRICT
' , MINUTES . ‘
Thursday, September 8, 2016, 2016

7. Approval of the following job descriptions:
_ Finance Manager '
Board Secretary
Secondary Counselor
Grant Manager
Physical Education Aide

9999‘s»

Sheryl Samson asked if there were any changes. Hope- Blinco said yes and explained that the Grant Manager was
dramatically changed. The position previously was Grant ManageriGear—Up and Intervention Coordinator. We
now have people in those positions so that freed up the Grant Manager to focus on securing funds which has
worked out very Well. She said the Grant Manger has reviewed and is fine with the changes to the job description.
Donna Glazier made the motion to approve thejob descriptions for Finance Manager, Board Secretary, Secondary
Counselor, Grant Manager, and Physical Education Aide. Sheryl Samson Seconded the motion. Vote: Keith
Neville—Yes, Donna GIazier—Yes, Mark Nixon—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yea. Motion passed 4-0-0

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1. Correspondence & Announcements — None

2. Board Member Reports — Donna Glazier gave a brief verbal report on the CABS meeting she attended.
Sheryl Samson reported that she attended the SES open house and said that it was a good night and very ‘
well attended. Keith Neville didn’t have a report but made a request to get a list of all the employees, their

' position, and what location they work at.

3. Superintendent’s Report — SL1 perintendent Hackford gave a brief summary of his report. He told the Board
that the transition to the 4 day school week went very smoothly, the DRC, contractor for the CRT‘s still has ‘
not gotten our scores back from last year. The NDOE has filed a lawsuit and we should have our test scores
by September 27. He said there is a list of all of the newt'retired staff, and pointed out the list of all of the
professional development for the school year.

4. Person or Group Recognition - None

GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

It is the School Board’s intention to listen and be responsive to the general publie‘s concerns. Comments from the public regarding topics not on the agenda are
invited al this time. You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public cemuent period or by completing a Request to Address the MCSD
Board form prior to the General Public Comment period."l‘he Board will answer questions er discuss lo the best of their ability items that an: introduced. However.
by law. ﬂte Board cannot take any action, reach a consensus or hear personal attacks at this time. Those who submit the l‘erm will normally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum of3 minutes. The President may ullew additional time to a given speaker as time allows and in hisfher sole discretion.

Arie Funk asked what was going on over at the old primary school on ‘5'J1 street. Mr. Hackford responded letting him
know the POOUPACT contractors were there doing . stos abatement.

ADJOURNMENT: 6:

‘ Respectfully submitted; ‘

 

