MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, September 8, 2016

The Mineral County School District held a public meeting on September 8, 2016 beginning 5:30 pm. in the
Board Room located at the Arlo K. Funk District Services Center in Hawthorne, Nevada.

CALL TO ORDER: The regular meeting of the Mineral County Board of School Trustees was

called to order at 5:30 pm. by the Board President, Keith Neville.

MEMBERS PRESENT: Keith Neville MEMBERS ABSENT:

Donna Glazier
Mark Nixon
Sheryl Samson

ADMINISTRATORS: Walt Hackford, Superintendent; J eff Wales, Principal J r. HigthCHS;

Stephanie Keuhey, Principal HES

OTHERS PRESENT: Scott Springston, Robert Rosenfeld, J oe Birch, Pam Wells, Tyler Viani, Arlo

Funk, Schyler Hagen, Sean Rowe, Hope Blinco, Meshanna Huntley, Candice
Birchum

Secretary Spring Blazewick stated that the agenda had been posted appropriately.
A Moment of Silence was observed and then the Pledge of Allegiance was recited

CONSENT ITEMS:
1. Minutes: August 18, 2016
2. PayrollVouchers: 1013, 1014, 1180, 1181
3. Payroll Checks: 82180 - 82233
4. A/P Warrants: 16352 - 16430

Donna Glazier made the motion to approve consent items 1-4. Sheryl Samson seconded the motion.
Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 4-0-0

ACTION ITEMS:

1.

7.

Receive information from WestEd on their program and working with our District. (Infomatiom’Discussion)

Robert Rosent'eld and Scott Springston from WestEd informed the Board of the work WestEd and how they
will be working with our District. He gave them an overview of the program and how they will be assisting

‘ our schools in making recommendation for improvement. Information and discussion only.

2“Cl Reading of revised Policy GBBMl — Requirements for Coaching and Extra-Curricular Activity Advisors.
(Discussion/For Possible Action)

Mr. Hackford pointed out the change he made after discussion during the ﬁrst reading. He explained that most
of the changes were to make the Policy in line with NIAA requirements. Sheryl Samson made the motion to
adopt the revised Policy GBBMI Requilements for Coaching and Extra—Currioular Activity Advisors. Donna
Glazier seconded the motion. Vote: Keith Neville-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl
Samson-Yes. Motion passed 4—0-1]

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MINUTES
Thursday, September 8, 2016, 2016

One-time salary increase for the Intervention Coordinator as compensation for additional days of contracted
work (from 182 — 200 days). (Discussion! For Possible Action)

Mr. Hackford apologized to the Board for not having any ﬁgures in the backup. He explained that it wasn’t
until she received her ﬁrst paycheck that she was not being given extra compen sation at a daily rate for i8
days. He told the Board that 6 months ago the district did not have the funds but we do have an additional
$230,000 of BSA funds this year due to approximately 58-60 new students who have enrolled. Mr. Hackford
made the recommendation to pay Intervention Coordinator for additional clays beyond the teacher contracted
182 days at a daily rate, which would be approximately $6,500—6,600 over the salary budgeted. Hope Blinco
reminded the Board of the job description which they approved at 200 days on February [8, 2016, at that
meeting it was also mentioned that the Union had also reviewed the job description and approved it at 200
days because the 1C was not in the classroorn with students. Pam Wells asked to clarify the exempt status
stating that the Union told her the district was trying to make her exempt from joining the Union. Hope
explained to her that because the position was salary, it is exempt from overtime and had nothing to do with
unic-n membership. Mrs. Well asked that it was put into the minutes for clariﬁcation. Ms. Blineo informed the
Board that she has been approached by union members and felt that this could open up additional issues with
the Unions. After further discussion, this item was tabled to be brought back to the Board at a later date.
Discussion only.

Extend the approved Part-Time Paraprofessional to a‘ Full Time Paraprofessional position to oversee the online
Odyssey Humanities Course, which will be split between the Jr. High/High School and Hawthorne
Elementary. (Discussion/For Possible Aetibn)

This position was approved as a Part-Time Paraprofessional at the August 18'“ Board meeting. This Position
was to be split between the J r. Higthigh School and Hawthorne Elementary School which is the reason this
position needs to be a F ull-Tirne position. Sheryl Samson made the motion to approve extending the Part-
T'Lme Paraprofessional to a Full Time Paraprofessional position to oversee the online Odyssey Humanities
Course, split between the Jr. HighII-ligh School and Hawthorne Elementary. Donna Glazier seconded the
motion. Vote: Keith Neviﬂe—Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Mark Nixon—Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion
passed 4-0-0

Recommendation to hire 2 Full-Time Paraprofessionals at HES to assist with growing student population and
Class Size Reduction requirements. (Discussion/F or possible action)

Walt explained the need to hire Paraprofessionals to help with the larger class sizes due to an unexpected
enrollment of-approximately 58 new students. He also stated that hiring the two Paraprofessionals would make
the District compliant with the Class Size Reduction requirements. Sheryl Samson made the motion to
approve hiring 2 FuIl-Time Paraprofessionals at I-[ES to assist. Donna Glazier seconded the motion. Vote:
Keith NeviIIe-Yes, Donna Glazier-Yes, Ma rlt N ixo'n-Yes, Sheryl Samson—Yes. Motion passed 4—0-0

Hire a Part-Time Paraprofessional for Schurz Elementary School to he paid for by grant funding.
(Discussion/for possible action)

Mr. Haekford stated that this position is for the Read by 3 grant. He said the Grant Manager worked hard to
get additional funding to hire another Part-Time Paraprofessional at SES. This would be for {(-4‘h grades only
but will get our younger students up to speed in reading. Donna Glazier made the motion to approve hiring a
Part-Tirne Paraprofessionai for Sehurz Elementary School to be paid for by grant funding. Sheryl Samson
seconded the motion. Vote: Keith NevilIe-Yes, Donna GIazier-Yes, Mark Nixon-Yes, Sheryl Samson—Yes.
Motion passed 4-0-0

MINERAL COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
. MINUTES
Thursday, September 8, 2016, 2016

Approval of the following job descriptions:
a. Finance Manager
b Board Secretary
c. Secondary Counselor
(1 Grant Manager
e Physical Education Aide

Sheryl Samson asked if there were any changes. Hope Blinco said yes and explained that the Grant Manager was
dramatically changed. The position previously was Grant Managen’Gear-Up and intervention Coordinator. We
now have people in those positions so that freed up the Grant Manager to focus on securing funds which has
worked out very well. She said the Grant Manger has reviewed and is ﬁne with the changes to the job description.
Donna Glazier made the motion to approve the job descriptions for F inance Manager, Board Secretary, Secondary
Counselor, Grant Manager, and Physical Education Aide. Sheryl Samson Seconded the motion. Vote: Keith
Nevﬂle—Yes, Donna GIazier-Yes, Mark NiXOn-Yes, Sheryl Samson-Yes. Motion passed 4-0-8

COMMUNICATION AND REPORTS:

1.

2.

4.

Correspondence & Announcements - None

Board Member Reports — Donna Glazier gave a brief verbal report on the CAHS meeting she attended.
Sheryl Samson reported that she attended the SES open house and said that it was a good night and very
well attended. Keith Neville didn’t have a report but made a request to get a list of all the employees, their
position, and what location they work at.

Superintendent’s Report -— Superintendent H ackford gave a brief summary of his report. He told the Board
that the transition to the 4 day school week went very smoothly, the DRC, contractor for the C RT’s still has
not gotten our scores back from last yea}: The NDOE has ﬁled a lawsuit and we should haVe our test scores
by September 27. He said there is a list of all of the newfretired staff, and pointed out the list of all of the
professional development for the school year.

Person or Group Recognition - None

GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT:

it is the School Board's intention to listen and be responsive to the general public's concerns. Comments from Ihe public regarding topics not on the agenda are
invited at this time You may request to speak by raising your hand during the General Public comment period or by completing a Request to Address the MCSD
Board form prior to the General Public Cemment period. The Board will answer questions: or discuss lo the best of their ability items that are introduced. However‘
by law. the Board cannot take any action. reach a consensus or hear personal attacks at this time. Those who submit the form will normally be called on ﬁrst.
Speaking time will be limited to a maximum oi‘3 minutes. The l’resment may allow additional time to a given speaker as time allows and in hislher sole discretion.

Arlo F unk asked what was going on over at the old primary school on 6“ street. Mr. Hackford responded letting him
know the POOLKPACT contractors were there doing , stos abatement.

ADJOURNMENT: 6: ‘ : ,.

Respectfully submitted;

    

Donna Glazie .

